Statement from Attorney General James on the Trial Against Donald Trump
********
NEW YORK – New York Attorney General Letitia James released the following statement on the first day of trial in her case against Donald Trump for engaging in years of financial fraud to unjustly enrich himself and cheat the system:

“For years, Donald Trump falsely inflated his net worth to enrich himself and cheat the system. We won the foundation of our case last week and proved that his purported net worth has long been rooted in incredible fraud. In this country, there are consequences for this type of persistent fraud, and we look forward to demonstrating the full extent of his fraud and illegality during trial.

“No matter how rich or powerful you are, there are not two sets of laws for people in this country. The rule of law must apply equally to everyone, and it is my responsibility to make sure that it does.”
********
'Say it to my face': DeSantis gets aggressive with Trump, challenges him to 1-on-1 debate
********
'Say it to my face': DeSantis gets aggressive with Trump, challenges him to 1-on-1 debate

After a debate that saw Gov. Ron DeSantis take multiple shots at former President Donald Trump in his absence, DeSantis is now challenging Trump to a one-on-one matchup.

"Since the former president didn't come here, maybe he would be willing to do one with you and I," DeSantis told Fox News host Sean Hannity after the debate. "I think he owes it to our voters to come and make the case."

DeSantis repeated those comments during a Fox News interview Thursday morning, adding that Trump likes to trash him but "It's one thing to do it behind a keyboard, step on stage and do it to my face. I'm ready for it."

DeSantis later posted similar comments on X, daring Trump to "say it to my face."

With Trump's polling lead growing in recent weeks and DeSantis sinking further behind, the governor has been under pressure to confront Trump more forcefully and directly.

That was evident Wednesday when DeSantis went after Trump during his first opportunity to speak. Trump has skipped the first two GOP presidential primary debates.

DeSantis takes gloves off with Trump: Takeaways from second GOP debate

Christie, Desantis slam Trump for adding trillions to national debt Republican presidential candidates Chris Christie and Gov. Ron Desantis both commented on former President Donald Trump's deficit at second GOP debate.

"Where's Joe Biden? He's completely missing in action from leadership and you know who else is missing in action? Donald Trump is missing in action," DeSantis said during the debate. "He should be on this stage tonight. He owes it to you to defend his record where they added $7.8 trillion to the debt, that set the stage for the inflation that we have."

DeSantis later criticized Trump's recent comments on abortion.

It's not surprising that DeSantis wants to debate Trump one-on-one. As he slips further behind Trump and closer to the pack of other GOP presidential contenders, it has been more difficult for DeSantis to make the case that the GOP primary is a two person race between him and Trump.

Still, the change of tone toward Trump is notable. DeSantis has been careful in how he takes on Trump, wary of alienating GOP voters who like the former president.

Trump campaign senior adviser Jason Miller dismissed the idea of a one-on-one debate in a comment to Fox News Digital.

"Rob DeSanctimonious? The loser in 5th place in New Hampshire? His pathetic campaign is over. Good night, sweet prince," Miller said.
********
Donald Trump skipped the GOP debate again. This time, his rivals took him on directly
********
Republican presidential candidates stand behind their podiums during a Republican presidential primary debate hosted by FOX Business Network and Univision, Wednesday, Sept. 27, 2023, at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif. (Mark J. Terrill/AP)

SIMI VALLEY, Calif. — Several of Donald Trump’s rivals stepped up their attacks against him in the second Republican presidential debate, urgently trying to dent the former president’s commanding primary lead during an event that often seemed like an undercard without him.

Trump went to Michigan, aiming to capitalize on the autoworkers’ strike in a key state that could help decide the general election. His competitors, meanwhile, were asked by Fox Business moderators at the Ronald Reagan library in California on Wednesday to participate in a reality show-style game in which they would write who else onstage they would vote “off the island.” They refused.

Advertisement

The debate’s tone was far removed from a campaign that’s been driven by Trump’s attacks on his rivals and democratic institutions as well as his grievances about a litany of criminal indictments and civil cases targeting him and his businesses. The moderators did not ask about the indictments or why the people onstage were better qualified than Trump, instead posing questions about issues including education, economic policy and the U.S.-Mexico border.

The candidates often went after Trump on their own, hoping to distinguish themselves at a critical moment with less than four months before the Iowa caucuses launch the presidential nomination process. Trump has continued to dominate the field even as he faces a range of vulnerabilities, including four criminal cases that raise the prospect of decades in prison.

Advertisement

“He should be on this stage tonight,” said Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who is attempting to establish himself as the leading Trump alternative despite recent struggles to break out from the rest of the pack. “He owes it to you to defend his record where they added $7.8 trillion to the debt. That set the stage for the inflation we have now.”

Several others blistered Trump for not showing up, a departure from the first debate, when the field mostly lined up behind former president. DeSantis said just a few minutes in that President Joe Biden was “completely missing in action from leadership. And you know who else is missing in action? Donald Trump is missing in action.”

Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who has built his campaign around criticizing Trump, said the former president “hides behind the walls of his golf clubs and won’t show up here to answer questions like all the rest of us are up here to answer.”

Even Vivek Ramaswamy, the entrepreneur who has declared Trump to be the “best president of the 21st century,” distanced himself and argued he was a natural successor.

“Yes, I will respect Donald Trump and his legacy because it’s the right thing to do,” he said. “But we will unite this country to take the America First agenda to the next level. And that will take a different generation to do it.”

Trump gave a lengthy prime-time speech in suburban Detroit that continued into the start of the debate. The crowd booed when he referenced the debate. He joked, “We’re competing with the job candidates,” and poked fun at his rivals for not drawing crowds as large as his.

Even hours before the debate began in Simi Valley, about 40 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles, the first group of supporters for any campaign to arrive waved Trump flags and put up a banner reading “Trump, our last hope for America and the world.”

His rivals seemed to sense his command over the field on Wednesday and did their best to change the direction of the race.

Advertisement

“Donald, I know you’re watching. You can’t help yourself,” Christie said. “You’re ducking these things. And let me tell you what’s going to happen. You keep doing that, no one here’s going to call you Donald Trump anymore. We’re going to call you Donald Duck.”

Nikki Haley, the former South Carolina governor and United Nations ambassador, drew larger crowds and new interest after the first debate. Her team raised expectations prior to Wednesday’s debate ahead of an expected campaign swing in Iowa.

Haley accused Trump of not being tough enough on China while he was president. She picked multiple fights with Ramaswamy, as she did in August. She assailed him for creating a campaign account on TikTok, the social media app that many Republicans criticize as a possible spy tool for China.

“Honestly, every time I hear you, I feel a little bit dumber for what you say,” Haley said.

Haley also fought with Sen. Tim Scott, her fellow South Carolinian and once her pick to fill the state’s open Senate seat. As Scott accused Haley of backing a gas tax as South Carolina governor and upgrading the curtains in her office as United Nations ambassador, Haley responded, “Bring it, Tim.”

After a first debate in which he assailed rivals and derided the rest of the field as “bought and paid for,” Ramaswamy tried to show a softer side when Haley and others went after him. After Haley’s attack on his use of TikTok, Ramaswamy said, “I think we would be better served as a Republican Party if we’re not sitting here hurling personal insults.”

Advertisement

DeSantis sniped at Ramaswamy and so did Pence, suggesting that he’d failed to vote in many past elections. North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum steered clear of Ramaswamy, but repeatedly jumped in to answer questions he wasn’t asked to get himself more screen time in the debate’s early going. He repeatedly shouted for attention from the left end of the stage, leading a moderator to threaten to cut his microphone.

In one awkward exchange, two candidates made references to sex in talking about teachers unions. “When you have the president of the United States sleeping with a member of the teachers union, there is no chance that you can take the stranglehold away from the teachers union,” Christie said at one point, referencing first lady Jill Biden’s teaching career and longtime membership in the National Education Association.

A short time later, Pence turned to Christie: “I’ve been sleeping with a teacher for 38 years. Full disclosure.” His wife, Karen, is a teacher.

The night concluded with the moderators noting that it was unlikely a divided field could stop Trump, but then asking candidates to say who they would vote off the island, an apparent reference to the “Survivor” reality show. The proposed game didn’t get far as DeSantis suggested it was insulting.

Former Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson was the only candidate not on the second debate’s stage after qualifying for the first one. He too headed to suburban Detroit, saying, “Donald Trump is here in Detroit tonight because he wants to avoid a debate.”

Wednesday’s site was symbolic given that Reagan has long been a Republican icon whose words and key moments still shape GOP politics today.

Advertisement

But in addition to fighting with the library’s leaders, Trump has reshaped the party and pushed it away from Reagan. The second debate’s participants were largely respectful of all that Reagan stood for — but also didn’t distance themselves much from Trump’s major policy beliefs.

Democrats, meanwhile, argued the debate didn’t matter. Biden was in California at the same time, raising money in the San Francisco Bay Area for his reelection campaign, which at the moment is likely to be a rematch with Trump.

California Gov. Gavin Newsom was in Simi Valley representing the Biden campaign and offering zingers to reporters about the debate, saying it was like a junior varsity or minor league game.

“This is a sideshow by any objective measure,” Newsom said in an interview.
********
Trump Support Rises After Second GOP Debate, Poll Finds
********
The latest survey reflects one day of data compared with the data points in our 2024 GOP primary tracker data, which uses a three-day rolling average. Notably, Trump’s improvement by the one-day metric tracks with movement we’re seeing in the three-day surveys, meaning some of the upward trajectory in his support came before the Sept. 27 debate.

However, the sizable shift from Monday to Thursday is notable compared with what happened after the first Republican debate in August, when the Thursday survey found no significant change in the GOP electorate’s views.

The bottom line

This data reinforces our view that Trump is in the driver’s seat of the Republican primary, and that Trump-less debates aren’t having much of an impact on the other candidates’ national support, and may in fact be helping the former president. It also suggests that the fragmentation of the field continues to harm efforts to stop Trump’s march to the 2024 nomination in Milwaukee next year.
********
Judge chides Donald Trump lawyer's 'ridiculous' questioning in civil fraud trial
********
Judge Arthur Engoron is seen in the courtroom before the start of former U.S. President Donald Trump’s civil business fraud trial at the State Supreme Court building in New York, U.S. October 4, 2023. Mary Altaffer/Pool via REUTERS Acquire Licensing Rights

NEW YORK, Oct 4 (Reuters) - A judge overseeing Donald Trump’s civil fraud trial pounded his fists in frustration with the former U.S. president’s lawyers on Wednesday for what he described as redundant and "ridiculous" cross-examination of a witness.

The heated exchange occurred on the third day of trial in a lawsuit by the New York attorney general’s office that threatens to dismantle Trump’s business empire over allegations that he inflated his net worth by billions of dollars to secure better loan and insurance terms.

On Tuesday, Justice Arthur Engoron imposed a gag order on public statements about court staff after Trump took to social media to lash out at the judge's top law clerk.

Trump, the frontrunner for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination, has denied wrongdoing and said the case is part of a political witch hunt.

Engoron alone will decide the outcome of the trial. There is no jury. He has already disciplined Trump’s lawyers for making what he said were "frivolous" arguments.

"This is ridiculous," Engoron said on Wednesday as one of Trump’s lawyers repeatedly asked his onetime accountant the same questions for each year at issue in the case.

"All I’m asking is that you lump things together so we do not waste time," Engoron said.

Trump, present in court for the third straight day, has repeatedly attacked New York Attorney General Letitia James and Engoron in remarks to reporters outside the courtroom, calling them "corrupt" and decrying the case as a "fraud and a sham."

"He already knows what he’s going to do," Trump said of Engoron on Wednesday.

Engoron ruled last week that Trump, his two adult sons and 10 of his companies committed fraud by inflating the value of their assets. The judge canceled the business certificates for companies controlling jewels of Trump's portfolio, including Trump Tower and 40 Wall Street in Manhattan. He said would appoint receivers to oversee the dissolution of those entities.

Trump’s lawyers appealed the decision on Wednesday.

The trial, which is expected to run through mid-December, largely concerns damages.

James, a Democrat, is seeking at least $250 million in fines, a permanent ban against Trump and his sons Donald Jr. and Eric from running businesses in New York, and a five-year commercial real estate ban against Trump and the Trump Organization.

Trump also faces four criminal indictments over his attempts to overturn Democrat Joe Biden's 2020 presidential election victory, his handling of classified documents after he left the White House, and hush money paid to a porn star. Trump has denied wrongdoing and pleaded not guilty in all of the cases. He also faces a January civil damages trial for defaming a writer who accused him of rape, which he denies.

Reporting by Jack Queen; editing by Grant McCool

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
********
Donald Trump tells judge he will not try to move his Georgia election subversion case to federal court
********
1. How relevant is this ad to you?

Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues
********
‘You’re getting screwed’: Trump, Biden take general election green flag
********
Gentlemen, start your engines.

The 2024 general election took an (unofficial) green flag this week near Detroit, the Motor City, as President Joe Biden and Donald Trump raced to court independent, blue-collar workers in the key swing state.

Seven 2024 Republican primary candidates debated more than 2,000 miles away in California on Wednesday night, but it felt like a consolation race for third place and the prize of — maybe — a Cabinet post in a second Trump administration. The main event of the next election cycle was playing out in Michigan as Biden and Trump delivered the same underlying message to independent voters in very different ways: You deserve more money from your wealthy corporate bosses.

The Democratic and Republican front-runners zoomed to the Wolverine State to deliver a populist message in another presidential race shaping up to be decided based on kitchen table issues and social issues like abortion. Trump used remarks at a non-unionized auto parts factory to play the role of the loud and earth-rumbling stock car. Biden’s much briefer appearance at a United Auto Workers picket line set himself up as an IndyCar, a sleeker machine with a smoother-sounding engine.

Biden and his White House aides tried keeping their line around the 2024 campaign’s first track tight, running close to the political wall in a tricky manner. Team Biden tried to drive on a messaging tightrope by saying the president who has been called “Union Joe” supports the workers but has no opinion about their contract demands. Trump worries not about such things.

“I side with autoworkers of America and with those who want to make America great again, and I always will,” Trump said. “The workers of America are getting — I’m going to put it very nicely — screwed.

“You’re getting screwed,” he added.

One hallmark of this earliest of (unofficial) general election starts has been the 77-year-old Trump painting the 80-year-old Biden as too old and too senile.

“Yesterday, Joe Biden posed for photos at the picket line. But it is his policies that sent Michigan autoworkers to the unemployment line,” Trump said. “He only came after I announced that I would be here. He announced quite a bit later, spoke for a few seconds. … And he had absolutely no idea what he was saying. He didn’t know where he was. He didn’t know what he was saying. ‘Where am I? Where am I?’ he’s saying. ‘Oh, you’re in Michigan.’”

Trump was correct that Biden delivered only brief remarks to striking union workers. But Biden seemed to fully know the score as he spoke through a bullhorn.

“Wall Street didn’t build the country, the middle class built the country. Unions built the middle class. That’s fact,” Biden said. “So let’s keep going. You’ve deserved what you’ve earned, and you’ve earned a hell of a lot more than you’re getting paid now.”

‘Union Joe’

The president known — among his many nicknames — as “Union Joe” appeared to make clear he wants American automakers to give UAW workers the deal they are seeking. But his remarks in Michigan did not square neatly with those of his top aides.

White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre was asked Monday about what signal should be taken from Biden’s visit to the picket line with strikers on Tuesday.

Jean-Pierre replied that “me saying that the president supports the autoworkers, that’s not anything new. When we’re talking about a president who is … the most pro-union president in history.”

Reporters asked repeatedly why it would be a stretch to believe “Union Joe” would not also support workers’ contract demands. Jean-Pierre replied: “We’re not going to litigate the specifics of the negotiations.”

But that did not square neatly with the visual of Biden standing with red-clad union members as UAW President Shawn Fain declared that “we have the power” because “we do the heavy lifting” — not corporate executives. Nor did the president’s plea to the workers to continue their strike.

Biden is running competitive with Trump in just about every national poll of a possible 2024 general election rematch, so he just might drive his reelection car to victory lane. But, once again, this week showed how the messaging system on his hot rod tends to sputter.

Another example came when a USA Today reporter traveling with Biden on Tuesday evening filed a dispatch to the White House press corps from a fundraiser in California with this nugget: “Biden joked that he wanted to climb on the large tree growing in the middle of the courtyard and said he didn’t want to go home.”

On one hand, Washington is in full meltdown mode with a government shutdown likely to start at 12:01 a.m. Sunday — so who could really blame him? On the other, the report provides more fodder for Trump and his GOP allies to paint Biden as in full cognitive decline.

Then there’s Trump. His usually meandering political rally remarks seem even more so these days amid his mounting legal woes, the latest of which is a civil decision that could wreck his business empire.

At one point Wednesday evening, in the same breath and seemingly in the same sentence, the former president lamented the “mutilation” of trans children and lambasted how much it costs to fill up the gas tank in a Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck.

As the (unofficial) general election heads toward the first turn, polls show voters would rather both front-runners head to the political garage — and retirement from the ultimate race. But neither is showing signs of bowing out, and both clearly realize states like Michigan, where independent voters still move the needle, will likely be the key to victory.

‘Have to endorse Trump’

That is especially true for Trump’s political fate, with Biden also hoping the four-time indicted GOP leader’s likely appearance on the ballot will again drive up the number of votes cast from key Democratic voting blocs like women and Black voters.

Trump’s fate, in many ways, will — again — hinge on how independent voters in four or six swing states feel about their financial security. If the former president can hammer home a message that independent voters had more cash in their pockets and value in their investment accounts during his term, while also convincing them the 91 felony counts he faces are unfair or not all that serious, he could defeat Biden.

An NBC News poll released this week found 37 percent of voters approve of Biden’s handling of the economy. The same survey also recorded the incumbent’s highest overall job disapproval rating of his term, at 56 percent (with 41 percent approving). He also is underwater with the same independent voters he and Trump were courting this week, at 36 percent approval, according to the NBC poll.

When asked if they are satisfied with the state of the economy, 28 percent said yes. That is down from 48 percent in April 2021, just a few months after Biden took office.

Biden and White House officials have said they are aware of but not worried about his low poll numbers.

“Polls are polls,” Jean-Pierre said this week. “They don’t tell the whole story.”

So far, voters are not impressed with the one Biden and Co. are telling. As for Trump, a YouGov poll released Wednesday painted a bleak picture of most voters’ views about him.

The survey shows Trump is underwater by 13 percentage points on the likability scale with voters, and more (47 percent yes to 22 percent no) believe, as a New York judge ruled this week, he inflated the values of his properties. What’s more, among independent voters, Trump trails Biden (37 percent to 40 percent).

It’s going to be a long race.

At one point Wednesday, Trump said the UAW workers walking picket lines are wasting their time because Biden’s electric vehicle policies would end the U.S. auto sector in just one or two years. He urged any unionized workers in the crowd to tell their “guys” to publicly back his candidacy. “They have to endorse Trump,” he said, “because if they don’t, they are just committing suicide.”

Vroom. Vroom.

Editor-at-Large John T. Bennett, a former White House correspondent, writes a weekly column for Roll Call, parts of which often first appear in the subscription-based CQ Senate newsletter.
********
Trump to California Republicans: ‘No way we lose this state in a real election’
********
In summary The former president railed against Democrats and again claimed the 2020 election was rigged in his speech to the California Republican Party. With him skipping the primary debates, the party convention may get the next best thing, with speeches also by Sen. Tim Scott and Gov. Ron DeSantis.

ANAHEIM — Donald Trump railed against mail-in ballots and repeated falsehoods about a rigged 2020 presidential election in his speech to California Republicans today.

“No way we lose this state in a real election,” said the former president, who lost California to President Biden in 2020 by a 63% to 34% margin.

Trump repeated many of the same talking points from his 2016 and 2020 campaigns, including criticizing California under “‘far left” Democratic leadership — Gov. Gavin Newsom (“He’s an environmental maniac, but only for political reasons”), “Marxist” district attorneys and “woke tech leaders.”

“I’m here to tell you that help is on its way,” he told more than 1,500 people crowded into an Anaheim convention center ballroom.

To roaring applause, Trump took the stage at the state Republican Party’s convention — the closest thing to a primary debate so far since he’s skipping the actual televised face-offs, including one Wednesday night in Simi Valley.

Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina will speak at a mid-afternoon session, and Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis will give the dinner address. Vivek Ramaswamy, a former biotech executive, is scheduled to speak on Saturday.

But Trump is the headliner, even if he did arrive an hour late. His 90-minute stump speech included criticisms of various Democratic leaders — asking how former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s husband was doing and describing the speaking style of Rep. Maxine Waters as “violent,” and Rep. Adam Schiff’s small neck.

Trump’s courting of party activists — and not all voters in the debates — is central to his strategy to win the GOP nomination again.

Winning over the base in California could mean winning all 169 delegates at stake in the state’s March primary — the biggest prize of any state and about 14% of the estimated total 1,234 needed to become the Republican nominee.

That potential delegate sweep is a gift from the state party, which changed its rules in July to a winner-take-all system statewide, instead of divvying up delegates by congressional district. And that shouldn’t be too much of a struggle: In California, as in many other states, Trump has the loyal support of most of the party. In a Public Policy Institute of California poll this week, Trump came in at 48% among Republican likely voters — just short of the 50% plus one he needs to get all the delegates. DeSantis is the only other candidate in double digits, at 14%.

In a rematch with President Biden in strongly Democratic California, however, the PPIC poll suggests that Trump would lose handily, again: Biden leads 57% to 26% among likely voters.

Trump’s support among Republicans is despite federal and state indictments he faces for interfering in the 2020 election, and for mishandling classified documents. He joked about the charges throughout the speech, and told the delegates, “I’m being indicted for you.”

For any of the other GOP candidates, it’s an uphill fight to gain public attention, much less votes.

From left to right, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, businessman Vivek Ramaswamy and Sen. Tim Scott, a Republican from South Carolina, argue a point during a Republican presidential primary debate hosted by FOX Business Network and Univision, at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley on Sept. 27. 2023. Photo by Mark J. Terrill, AP Photo

Some of the seven who did show up at the Reagan presidential library for Wednesday night’s debate tried to highlight Trump’s absence. Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie even tried to coin a nickname — “Donald Duck” — for ducking debates.

But mostly, the candidates tried to tout themselves, when not taking shots at each other — and sometimes shading the truth to do so. Former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley had one of the most talked-about moments, by saying of Ramaswamy: “Every time I hear you, I feel a little bit dumber from what you say.”

For his part, Trump told supporters at a rally Wednesday night in Michigan that debate participants are applying for a job in his next administration. And he claimed he isn’t impressed: “Does anybody see the VP in the group? I don’t think so.”

Other things Trump said

On law and order: Those who steal from stores “can fully expect to be shot,” which prompted a standing ovation and “Trump” chants. (Retail theft is getting a lot of attention, prompting a “strike” by Oakland business owners this week.)

Those who steal from stores “can fully expect to be shot,” which prompted a standing ovation and “Trump” chants. (Retail theft is getting a lot of attention, prompting a “strike” by Oakland business owners this week.) On California’s drought: Officials have sacrificed people’s water needs for the sake of the environment: Due to water rationing, “rich people from Beverly Hills, generally speaking, don’t smell so good.”

Officials have sacrificed people’s water needs for the sake of the environment: Due to water rationing, “rich people from Beverly Hills, generally speaking, don’t smell so good.” On immigration: The U.S.-Mexico border was under better control during his tenure, and now there are issues at the border with Canada as well.

The U.S.-Mexico border was under better control during his tenure, and now there are issues at the border with Canada as well. On Newsom and Biden: Newsom “has become Biden’s top surrogate, because he doesn’t think he’s gonna make it.” (The governor insists he’s not running in 2024 and is all in on helping Biden win reelection.)

Sen. Scott, who didn’t register in the PPIC poll of California Republicans, followed Trump and echoed some of the same points — addressing crime by funding the police, supporting parents’ bill of rights and “breaking the backs of teachers’ unions” and opposing transgender athletes. But in his speech to delegates, he focused especially on the southern border, blaming lax policies for deaths caused by fentanyl.

In a half-hour conversation with state party chairperson Jessica Millan Patterson, Scott also delved into his “Made in America” plan, which he said would create millions of new jobs by easing restrictions on oil drilling.

Trump didn’t mention Scott in his speech.

But he continued the months of sparring with DeSantis — “I don’t give a damn if he’s a Republican” — who he said came to him for help in his gubernatorial campaign.

“I said, ‘Ron, if I were George Washington and Abraham Lincoln combined, and I came back from the dead and I endorsed you, I don’t think it would matter.’ ”

DeSantis, in his dinner keynote, hit back at Trump for taking credit for turning Florida more Republican, and needled the former president for losing Arizona and Georgia.

But for the most part, the Florida governor focused on his record — something he argued differentiates him from the other candidates at the debate. He emphasized his actions in support of the parental rights movement, boasting about implementing a parents’ bill of rights, and about Florida prohibiting “critical race theory” in schools.

“On issue after issue, we don’t chirp, we don’t virtue signal. We deliver,” he told delegates.

But he also noted his own unpopularity, sort of: He didn’t see any protesters on this trip to California, unlike prior visits.

Other things DeSantis said

On crime: Met several Californians who reported being mugged, and pledged to fund the police.

Met several Californians who reported being mugged, and pledged to fund the police. On fentanyl: Would build the border wall, not just to deal with illegal immigration, but to deter Mexican drug cartels.

Would build the border wall, not just to deal with illegal immigration, but to deter Mexican drug cartels. On debate with Newsom: In the ”tussle” with California’s governor Nov. 30 on Fox News, expects Newsom will “pull out statistics,” but can point to the number of California license plates in Florida: “How are people actually voting with their feet?”

DeSantis didn’t venture into stolen elections or voter fraud, unlike Trump.

Despite Trump warning again about fraud with mail ballots, California Republican leaders are resigned to working within the system to have any hope of winning statewide races again. At this weekend’s convention, delegates can attend sessions about how to take advantage of the state’s election system of sending mail ballots to all voters.

The change to the system of awarding delegates — which some suspect has “Trump’s fingerprints” — has been one of a few internal battles roiling the state GOP. This weekend, party activists will also vote on whether to amend its platform to remove opposition to same-sex marriage and abortion — a move that drew conservative members to organize in opposition.

Others are calling for changes to the endorsement process. The party endorses any Republican running in a partisan race in which no other Republican is running, which “has led to some very embarrassing endorsements,” Matt Shupe, chairperson of the Contra Costa Republican Party, and Ron Nehring, former state party chairperson, wrote in an Orange County Register op-ed.

But tonight, the party’s rules committee blocked that proposal.

Why California Republicans are facing a moment of truth GOP leaders and activists will hear Friday from Donald Trump and other presidential candidates before deciding whether to change the party platform on abortion and same-sex marriage. Trump is still the favorite for California GOP delegates As Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis postures for a possible presidential campaign, delegates to the California Republican Party convention this weekend remained unquestionably in support of former President Trump in 2024.
********
Biden Identifies the Danger to Democracy – and it’s Donald Trump
********
An emotional President Joe Biden delivered a passionate but somber warning about the future of America's democracy Thursday, unusually naming the man he said was at the root of the "MAGA extremists" who threaten the Constitution: former President Donald Trump.

"There is no question that today’s Republican Party is driven and intimidated by MAGA extremists. Their extreme agenda, if carried out, would fundamentally alter the institutions of American democracy as we know it," Biden said at Arizona State University, home to The McCain Institute, named for Biden's late friend and colleague, GOP Sen. John McCain.

Then Biden got specific and personal, saying Trump had the idea that the president is above the law and has "no limits" on his power.

"Trump says the Constitution gave him 'the right to do whatever he wants as president.' I've never even heard a president say that in jest – not guided by the Constitution or by common service and decency towards our fellow Americans but by vengeance and vindictiveness," said Biden.

The president – who does not typically mention Trump by name, especially in non-campaign speeches – started reading some of Trump's actual quotes.

"I am your retribution," Biden said, quoting from a Trump speech. Then there were remarks Trump made on social media about Gen. Mark Milley, the outgoing chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

"Quote, ‘He's a traitor,’ end quote," Biden said, his voice rising. Quote, ‘In times gone by, the penalty would have been death,’ unquote," Biden added, referencing Trump's stunning remark about the nation's most senior military leader – who clashed with the former president. Biden called out Republicans for their "deafening silence" after Trump's dramatic statement, though the president said he knew all Republicans were not in agreement with Trump.

The president displayed a wide range of emotions as he spoke to students and dignitaries, including the McCain family, Arizona Gov. Katie Hobbs and former GOP Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey.

He was wistful and joking recalling how he introduced the late Sen. McCain to his wife, Cindy, in Hawaii. He was near tears as he talked about how his son Beau and McCain both died from the same type of brain cancer, and he was angry as he detailed the comments Trump has made about those whom Biden said make democracy work.

Trump "called service members ‘suckers’ and ‘losers.’ Was John a sucker? Was my son Beau, who lived next to a burn pit for a year, came home and died, was he a sucker for volunteering to serve his country?" Biden said.



Cartoons on the 2024 Election View All 78 Images

Trump also moved to strangle the civil service system, creating a "Schedule F" class of federal workers who would, as Biden characterized it, have to declare loyalty not to the U.S. government but to Trump, by making tens of thousands of civil service workers easier to fire. He got rid of that when he became president, Biden said.

The speech, billed as the president's fourth major address on the state and fate of democracy in America, focused on the institutions of democracy – the military, the civil service, the separation of powers, free and open elections and a judiciary that holds all Americans accountable, regardless of their titles.

But it also signaled a shift toward the general election, which is shaping up as a rematch between Biden and Trump.

The Biden-Kamala Harris campaign Wednesday released its first ad that was focused on Trump himself, as opposed to touting the two's policy agenda and accomplishments.

Thursday, the Democratic ticket was out with a new ad, featuring photos of Biden with former President Ronald Reagan, McCain and former GOP Secretaries of State Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice and a message that lists the "bipartisan" laws Biden signed.

And after Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Trump's closest competitor for the nomination, slammed Trump in the Republican primary debate Wednesday night for being "missing in action" and adding $7.8 trillion to the national debt, the Biden-Harris campaign pounced, releasing an ad Thursday with DeSantis' scolding and a video of Trump on the golf course.

Biden sometimes refers to "the former guy" when he speaks in official settings, but his criticism has been less direct and more focused on things like tax policy, abortion and attitudes toward labor unions.

But as Biden lauded McCain – who pointedly directed that Trump not attend his funeral – as a patriotic defender of democracy, the president also held up Trump as a man who could undo it, should he win election next year.

"Democracy means rule of the people – not rule of monarchs, not rule of money, not rule of mighty. Regardless of party, that means respecting free and fair elections, accepting the outcome – win or lose. It means you can't love your country only when you win,” Biden said.

He noted that "it's not one person," and that other "MAGA extremists" have called for eliminating the FBI or have "whitewashed" the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection at the Capitol as "legitimate political discourse." Biden referred to the threat of "slitting throats" of career civil service workers – a reference to remarks DeSantis made in New Hampshire in August, when the Florida governor denounced "these deep state people" and pledged to "start slitting throats on Day One."

Biden also called out Sen. Tommy Tuberville of Alabama for holding up promotions of military personnel. The U.S. military, which is "the strongest military in the history of the world," is "being accused of being weak and woke by the opposition," the president said.

"Seizing, concentrating, attempting to abuse power, purging and packing key institutions, spewing conspiracy theories, spreading lies for profit and power, inciting violence … MAGA is the threat to the brick and mortar of our democratic institutions," Biden said.

As Biden spoke, lawmakers in Washington were continuing their own fights. House Republicans held their first day of hearings on an "impeachment inquiry" of Biden, based on business activities by Biden's son Hunter.

As they met, the clock ticked down to what appears to be a likely shutdown of the federal government, with Republicans unable to agree among themselves on a funding deal to keep the government running.

Biden, who often invokes the more bipartisan days of his senatorial career, pleaded with the audience to think about the future of the country as it approaches the 250th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence.
********
Donald Trump wants future Republican debates to be canceled after refusing to participate in them
********
Donald Trump ‘s campaign is calling on the Republican National Committee to cancel all remaining presidential primary debates, saying the RNC must instead “refocus its manpower” on defeating Joe Biden next year.

In a statement late Monday, top Trump advisers also repeated debunked falsehoods about election fraud, claiming without evidence that Democrats are working to steal the 2024 election. Trump has maintained that the 2020 election was stolen, despite multiple legal cases, investigations and his own attorney general finding no fraud.

In their statement, senior campaign advisers Susie Wiles and Chris LaCivita say the November debate in Miami and all future debates should be canceled.

“Anything less, along with other reasons not to cancel, are an admission to the grassroots that their concerns about voter integrity are not taken seriously and national Republicans are more concerned about helping Joe Biden than ensuring a safe and secure election,” they said.

The former president and front-runner for the GOP nomination has skipped the first two debates — as several of his rivals attacked him for not attending — and said he wouldn’t participate in the future.

He is in court this week in New York for a civil fraud trial accusing him of inflating the value of his businesses, a case that he has argued is politically motivated.

The RNC did not respond to requests for comment Monday or Tuesday.

A spokesman for Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis rejected the Trump campaign statement about canceling debates, saying the country “needs a president who will fight for them anywhere, in any forum.” DeSantis in the second debate accused Trump of not wanting to defend his record on the national debt.

“Donald Trump should defend his record to the American people and debate Ron DeSantis on their vision and specific plans to stop American decline and restore our country,” said Bryan Griffin, the spokesman. “But Trump knows he can’t defend his record, and he isn’t the fighter he was in 2016.”

RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel declined to answer a question last week about Trump’s call to end the debates during a call with reporters on the launch of the committee’s “Bank Your Vote” initiative in New York. The program, which the GOP is implementing in states across the U.S., encourages Republicans to participate in early and mail-in voting — a practice that Democrats have embraced but some Republicans, including Trump, have criticized.

McDaniel also brushed off Trump’s continued skepticism of early voting, even after he recorded a video to promote the “Bank Your Vote” initiative.

“I think we have to take those fights on, but also understand that once it gets to game day, the rules that are on the field are what we need to play by and President Trump is all in on that,” she said.

___

Burnett reported from Chicago. Associated Press reporters Jill Colvin and Michelle L. Price contributed from New York.
