Rugby World Cup 2023 Livestream: How to Watch Ireland vs. New Zealand From Anywhere
********
It's a heavyweight quarterfinal showdown in Paris on Saturday as tournament favorites Ireland and New Zealand face off in this much-anticipated 2023 Rugby World Cup encounter.

Andy Farrell's Ireland side claimed four victories from their four pool matches, including an impressive 13-8 victory over South Africa, but have never made it to the semifinal stage of this tournament in their history.

Three-time World Cup winners the All Blacks have also impressed during the group phase, but will be wary of a side who beat them in a three-game series in Ireland back in July.

Below, we'll outline the best live TV streaming services to use to watch Ireland vs. New Zealand, no matter where you are in the world.

Ireland captain Johnny Sexton has insisted his side are ready for the "toughest game we've ever faced." Gaspafotos/MB Media/Getty Images

Ireland vs. New Zealand: When and where?

Ireland take on New Zealand at the Stade de France in Paris on Saturday, Oct. 14. Kickoff is set for 9 p.m. CET local time in France -- that's 8 p.m. BST in the UK and Ireland, and 3 p.m. ET or 12 p.m. PT in the US. In New Zealand it's an 8 a.m. NZDT start on Sunday morning, or 6 a.m. AEDT in Australia.

How to watch the 2023 Rugby World Cup online from anywhere using a VPN

If you find yourself unable to view the tournament locally, you may need a different way to watch this match -- that's where using a VPN can come in handy. A VPN is also the best way to stop your ISP from throttling your speeds on game day by encrypting your traffic, and it's also a great idea if you're traveling and find yourself connected to a Wi-Fi network, and you want to add an extra layer of privacy for your devices and logins.

With a VPN, you're able to virtually change your location on your phone, tablet or laptop to get access to the game. Most VPNs, like our Editors' Choice, ExpressVPN, make it really easy to do this.

Using a VPN to watch or stream sports is legal in any country where VPNs are legal, including the US, UK and Australia, as long as you have a legitimate subscription to the service you're streaming. You should be sure your VPN is set up correctly to prevent leaks: Even where VPNs are legal, the streaming service may terminate the account of anyone it deems to be circumventing correctly applied blackout restrictions.

Looking for other options? Be sure to check out some of the other great VPN deals taking place right now.

Livestream Ireland vs. New Zealand in the US

This Rugby World Cup 2023 quarterfinal clash can be watched live in the US via streaming service Peacock, which is showing every match of the tournament live. You'll need a Peacock Premium or Premium Plus account to catch games live.

Peacock Watch the 2023 Rugby World Cup in the US from $2 per month NBC's streaming service, Peacock, offers access to all the matches of the 2023 Rugby World Cup. You'll need to be signed up with a Peacock Premium or Premium Plus account to stream games live, which costs $6 a month or $60 per year. See at Peacock

Watch Ireland vs. New Zealand for free in Ireland

Rugby fans looking to cheer on the Boys In Green back in Ireland can watch this quarterfinal showdown live and for free via terrestrial broadcaster Virgin Media 1 and its online service Virgin Media Player.

Watch Ireland vs. New Zealand for free in the UK

Rugby fans in the UK are among the luckiest in the world, as all matches of the Rugby World Cup in France are being shown live on free-to-air channels ITV1 and ITV4. This means viewers in the UK will be able to stream every game for free, including this match on ITVX. Live coverage for this game is on ITV1 and is set to get underway at 7:15 p.m. BST.

Stream Ireland vs. New Zealand in Australia

Coverage of this key World Cup matchup is with pay-TV streaming platform Stan Sport, which is showing every match of the tournament, ad-free.

Stan Sport Carries live coverage of every match of the Rugby World Cup from AU$10 a month Stan Sport will set you back AU$10 per month (on top of a AU$10 Stan subscription), but the streaming service is currently offering a seven-day free trial. A subscription will also give you access to UEFA soccer action, as well as Grand Slam tennis and Formula E. See at Stan Sport

Stream Ireland vs. New Zealand in Canada

Comprehensive live coverage of the 2023 Rugby World Cup will be available in Canada via TSN. Cord cutters can watch via the network's streaming service TSN Plus.

TSN Plus Watch the 2023 Rugby World Cup in Canada for CA$20 a month TSN Plus is a new direct streaming service, boasting exclusive coverage of PGA Tour Live golf, NFL games, F1, Nascar and the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments. Ideal for cord cutters, the service is priced at CA$20 a month or CA$200 per year. See at TSN

Stream Ireland vs. New Zealand for free in New Zealand

Pay TV broadcaster Sky Sport has broadcast rights to show every 2023 Rugby World Cup game live in New Zealand. However, six matches are being shown for free on Freeview channel Sky Open (formerly Prime), including this huge quarterfinal clash.

Sky Open Carries select 2023 Rugby World Cup games for free in New Zealand You can watch select games from the Rugby World Cup, including five games from the closing stages of the tournament, for free in New Zealand on terrestrial channel Sky Open. That also means you'll be able to livestream games via the channel's website -- you just need to provide your name, postcode and email address. See at Sky Open

Stream Ireland vs. New Zealand in South Africa

In South Africa, every match of the tournament is being shown on SuperSport.

If you're not going to be able to watch on your TV, you can also watch via the network's streaming service for PC and Mac, as well as via SuperSport's mobile app.

Quick tips for streaming the 2023 Rugby World Cup using a VPN
********
Honestly, Eddie, it’s time to come clean
********
1. What Eddie Jones needs to outline

The Wallabies coach is due to speak on Tuesday, where he will clearly be asked about the situation with Japan. Now that Frans Ludeke has broken cover and confirmed that he is also part of the Japanese coaching process, Jones has nowhere to hide. If he is part of that process, then say so, and explain why. If it is linked to centralisation concerns, say so.

If he genuinely believes that three Super Rugby teams is the way to go, then say so. In this messy instance, honesty is both the (narrow) path to keeping his job, and also the way he can depart with some integrity. Jones is, of course, on the nose of every Wallabies fan, but no matter what happens I think that his honest, unfiltered views on the entire system would be of great value to Australian rugby.

2. Rugby Championship winners throw Wallabies a lifeline
********
South Africa flag will fly at World Cups after an appeal is submitted over anti-doping deadline
********
Holders South Africa hope to defend their title in France

South Africa's flag will fly proudly at Sunday's highly anticipated Rugby World Cup quarter-final between hosts France and the Springboks as well as at the Cricket World Cup in India, following representations by the SA Institute for Drug-Free Sports (Saids) to the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada).

South Africa's national teams faced the embarrassing prospect of not having their national flag flown at events like the two World Cups after Wada said sanctions would be imposed if the country did not update its anti-doping legislation by the 13 October deadline.

"Wada has received formal notification from the South Africa National Anti-Doping Agency (NADO) that it disputes that allegation of non-compliance against it, as well as the proposed consequences," Wada said in a statement.

"Wada will shortly refer the matter to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) for its consideration. As such, the allegation of non-compliance is put on hold and the consequences will not apply until such time as CAS makes its ruling."

The CAS hearing is likely to take place in a few months while the South African government has undertaken to pass the amended anti-doping legislation by May.

This means that the country's bid to host the 2027 Fifa Women's World Cup will now, in all likelihood, not be affected by the sanctions.

"Saids notes that Wada has acknowledged receipt of our notice of dispute and that they confirmed that the consequences of non-compliance, as it pertains to the official flying of the SA flag at international sport competitions, will not be enforced until CAS rules on the matter," Saids Chief Executive Khalid Galant told BBC Sport Africa.

The threat of sanctions

Saids filed a letter of dispute with Wada on Tuesday after the anti-doping body gave the country until 13 October to update its anti-doping legislation.

Failure to amend the legislation would have meant the implementation of sanctions that include not being able to fly the national flag at international sporting events and being prevented from bidding to host or hosting international events.

It would have been impossible for South Africa to meet the Wada deadline because of the comprehensive process involved in amending or introducing new legislation in this country, which normally takes a few months before being signed into law.

In an effort to stave off the sanctions, Saids, who are the signatories to the Wada code, opted to file the letter of dispute with the anti-doping body.

The country's sports minister Zizi Kodwa told a media briefing in Cape Town on Tuesday that the amended legislation would be passed by May.

"The legislation has already been approved by cabinet and between now and May should be sufficient time for us to come up with credible legislation," said Kodwa.

"The amendments have been submitted to Wada who have accepted wholly those amendments."

Kodwa rejected suggestions that the government was playing for time by lodging the appeal.

'We don't want to kick the can down the road, we want to find a permanent solution. South Africa's commitment to anti-doping is unquestioned," he added.

Galant told BBC Sport Africa the appeal could not be denied.

"The 13-page letter includes a letter of support from government indicating that the legislation in question will be changed by May to meet Wada's anti-doping requirements," said Galant.

"We have given them timelines by which the legislation will be changed. We have also given them the option of rescinding their decision of non-compliance in the light of our commitment to changing the legislation.

"The first part of the letter includes an outline of some of the technical issues we are contesting."

Zizi Kodwa, South Africa's minister of sports, arts and culture, told reporters that the government wants to find a permanent solution to the issue

Questions have been asked about why it has taken the government so long to amend anti-doping legislation that was first passed in 1997 and updated in 2006.

Wada updates its anti-doping code every four years and South Africa was put on notice in October 2022 to update its legislation or face sanctions for non-compliance.

Kodwa, who was appointed minister of sports, arts and culture in March, preferred not to point a finger at any of his predecessors for the delay in amending the legislation.

"The only way to see what happened is to conduct an investigation," he said. "It's not appropriate to speculate. I cannot sit here and say so-and-so is responsible."
