Microsoft Now Owns Activision Blizzard: What It Means for Your Favorite Games
********
From Azeroth to Pandaria, from the Dry Steppes of Sanctuary all the way to Candy Kingdom, the world of Activision Blizzard just got even bigger.

If, like me, you've played the classic Blizzard games endlessly on PC, Microsoft has potentially game-changing (literally) news for you: You'll soon be able to access these classic games in more formats and places.

The biggest gaming news of the year came on Friday the 13th, when Microsoft's $69 billion acquisition of gaming studio Activision Blizzard finally closed, with the mammoth gaming studio joining the Xbox team along with popular franchises Call of Duty, Overwatch and World of Warcraft.

"Today we begin a new chapter as we officially become a part of the Microsoft family, uniting with the amazing Xbox team and co-creating the future of gaming together," Activision Blizzard wrote on Oct. 13. "To the reapers, fighters, rogues, and airstrikers, The sharpshooters, revivers, healers, and bubble bursters, Sorcerers, shamans, slayers and survivors, thank you from the bottom of our hearts for playing with us."

It was something of an epic quest just for Microsoft to get here in the first place. The acquisition, announced in January 2022, faced resistance across the world, with regulators in the US, the EU, the UK and New Zealand concerned that it would lead to a lack of competition in the gaming sector, as it would put Microsoft into the mix of the top three video game publishers in the world along with Tencent and Sony.

There's a lot that will happen because of this deal, both within Activision Blizzard and with the games it produces, the cloud-streaming subscription services that'll get access to those games and whether Sony and Nintendo benefit from this. I'm here to walk you through what we know, what we don't know yet and what we can wish for.

Ready Player One (and two) on PS5 and Nintendo

To get the acquisition through, Microsoft promised not to lock down Activision Blizzard games to its Xbox consoles. This suggestion of more cross-console compatibility also means lovers of the PC games from Blizzard may soon be able to play in other places.

While I'm hopeful that StarCraft II will be making its way to the Nintendo Switch or PlayStation 5 so I can resume losing 2v2 battles online, it's mostly unknown exactly which games will be added to which consoles.

We can rest assured, though, that Call of Duty will be staying on the PlayStation platform under a 10-year "binding agreement" between Microsoft and Sony as confirmed by Xbox boss Phil Spencer in July. Through a cloud gaming deal with Ubisoft, Activision games could also be coming to the PS5 through the Ubisoft Plus streaming service.

Microsoft had earlier reached a 10-year deal to bring the Call of Duty series to Nintendo consoles. It's unknown yet if any other games will be coming to the Switch.

There's also a 10-year deal to keep Call of Duty on Valve's Steam service, but questions remain on whether it'll come to the Steam Deck handheld console.

Activision Blizzard games on streaming services

Another of Microsoft's big promises when pushing through the acquisition was that it would bring the games acquired to streaming services, negating the need for you to buy physical copies of the games in favor of just downloading them right onto your PC or console. There are already multiple ways this will happen.

First, Xbox has started work on bringing Activision, Blizzard and King game franchises to Xbox Game Pass "and other platforms," with an update on the process expected in the months ahead.

Second, Microsoft sold cloud streaming rights for Activision Blizzard games to Ubisoft in August as part of an agreement to get the acquisition approved by the UK regulatory authority, in an effort to bypass concerns over creating an anti-competitive gaming market.

The deal with Ubisoft contains "perpetual cloud streaming rights for Call of Duty and all other current Activision Blizzard games and those released over the next 15 years," Ubisoft said on Oct.13. Ubisoft has the rights to license the games individually to third-party streaming providers as well.

Third, Microsoft made a 10-year agreement with Nvidia earlier this year to allow continued access to Xbox games on the GeForce Now cloud gaming platform and to add in Activision Blizzard games once the acquisition was approved.

Last, if you live in the European Economic Area, Microsoft is required to allow any cloud streaming service to license Activision games for free so players who own copies of those games can play for free.

Read more: Here Are the Best Game Subscription Services

A gamer's game changer

It's not just the Blizzard worlds and Call of Duty mega franchise. Microsoft now also owns console darling Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, the King's Quest reboot on PC and mobile juggernaut Candy Crush Saga.

Before now, Microsoft hasn't been much involved in the mobile gaming space, but Candy Crush, the third highest-grossing mobile game worldwide in 2023, changes that.

And by acquiring Activision Blizzard's suite of PC games, Microsoft will become more competitive with the Epic Games Store and Valve's Steam, as it will have both the Microsoft Store and Blizzard.net. Games like World of Warcraft have a huge, loyal customer base -- the MMORPG is estimated to have 130 million subscribers and 1.2 million daily players this month -- that now transfers to Microsoft.

Looking forward, as the studio no doubt has multiple games -- including an unnamed Survival game -- in the works, Microsoft likely has its own ideas of what it wants developed, expanded or scrapped.

Judging by the games featured in a trailer announcing the acquisition's closure, Microsoft is especially interested in Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Diablo, Crash Bandicoot, Candy Crush, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater and Spyro.

IDC gaming analyst Lewis Ward told CNET he thinks it's unlikely Microsoft will change Activision Blizzard's roadmap right out of the gate, sticking with the studio's plans through 2024 at least. But he believes the exit of current CEO Bobby Kotick "will help lift a cloud from the Activision Blizzard brand."

"The acquisition could even breathe new life into smaller games and older franchises like Crash Bandicoot, Hearthstone, Spyro and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater because they may fill a hole in the Game Pass lineup," Ward added.

From a development perspective, the acquisition has the potential to prevent indie games from being made. It's likely Microsoft would focus its budget on pushing in-house content into its Game Pass service rather than giving smaller indie studios the budget to develop their own games for Xbox, Ward says.

Expanding Game Pass may become a primary driver for whatever Microsoft decides to do next with the newly acquired games.

"It's likely that larger undisclosed titles, especially if they are reboots or sequels, have been in the works and will continue to receive support and prioritization under Microsoft, especially if those games will bolster player adoption of Microsoft's Game Pass," a board member of the International Game Developers Association, who asked that we not use their name, told CNET.

Changes to gaming culture

Stepping back from the games themselves for a moment, let's hope that Microsoft has a positive impact across the workplace culture inside Activision Blizzard. The gaming studio has faced accusations of fostering a toxic "frat boy" atmosphere, in an ongoing lawsuit brought by the state of California (Activision has countersued). A labor union has filed a complaint over alleged intimidation.

In 2021, Activision Blizzard agreed to pay $18 million to settle a lawsuit from the US Equal Employment Opportunity over allegations of sexual harassment, pregnancy discrimination and retaliation, with former CEO J. Allen Brack stepping down and more than 20 workers being fired.

Microsoft's 2022 diversity report cites women as making up 30.7% of its workforce. Activision Blizzard's sits at 25% as of the end of 2022. While employee numbers are an indication of diversity efforts, they don't tell the whole story: The environment in which people work is also critical for making impactful, inclusive games in 2023 and ahead.

When announcing the acquisition in January 2022, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella discussed how he had shifted Microsoft's intensely competitive inner workings, and said Spencer would do the same within Activision Blizzard.

"The culture of our organization is my No. 1 priority," Nadella said at the time. "We are supportive of the goals and the work Activision Blizzard is doing and we also recognize that after the close, we will have significant work to do in order to continue to build a culture where everyone can do their best work."

Microsoft's Activision Blizzard roster of games

For the record, here are all the Activision Blizzard gaming series now owned by Microsoft:

PC and console games from Blizzard:

Warcraft

World of Warcraft

Overwatch

Hearthstone

Diablo

Heroes of the Storm

StarCraft 2

Console games from Activision:

Call of Duty

Tony Hawk's Pro Skater

Crash Bandicoot

Spyro

Skylanders

King's Quest

Prototype

Geometry Wars

Mobile games from King:

Candy Crush

Pet Rescue

Farm Heroes

Rebel Riders

Bubble Witch

Diamond Diaries

Pyramid Solitaire

Blossom Blast

The continued rise of Xbox

Microsoft's various 10-year deals with competitors mean there will be no immediate impacts of the acquisition on Sony's PlayStation or in the Nintendo space. But over time, it's likely to benefit Microsoft in the console wars.

"If you think about it, Sony's customers will now be paying Microsoft to play CoD and all those other franchises," IDC's Ward said. "It's just a huge sea change in terms of the flow of money, and potentially some customer-related information, moves around the gaming ecosystem."

Activision Blizzard's exit from being an independent studio to become part of the Microsoft empire will have far-reaching consequences across all gaming platforms worldwide: mobile, PC, consoles and streaming.

Whether our favorite games are rebooted, scrapped or greenlit, Microsoft now wields much greater power to decide how, where and what we play.
********
Did Microsoft Waste $69 Billion on Activision Blizzard?
********
After nearly two years of regulatory proceedings, Microsoft (MSFT 0.37%) finally completed the acquisition of leading game producer Activision Blizzard. The U.K. Competition and Markets Authority was the final holdout, but it granted approval of the deal in October.

The $68.7 billion acquisition is one of the largest in Microsoft's history. In exchange, the Xbox business gains an infusion of $8.7 billion in revenue from best-selling titles, including Call of Duty, Diablo, Overwatch, and World of Warcraft, in addition to some valuable mobile franchises, such as King's Candy Crush.

However, Microsoft didn't get everything it wanted. To get approval, it had to make some compromises. In July, Microsoft agreed to make one of the all-time best-selling franchises, Call of Duty, available to Sony and Nintendo's game consoles for 10 years.

It also agreed to let Ubisoft Entertainment buy Activision's cloud gaming rights. This means all the cloud gaming rights for Activision's PC and console content produced over the next 15 years will be owned by Ubisoft.

These compromises were needed to win the prize, but can Microsoft still reap enough growth out of Activision to justify the steep price tag?

Microsoft is building a large base of players

This won't be Microsoft's last acquisition of a video game company. Sony and Microsoft have been in an arms race to acquire studios in recent years to gain scale in the $200 billion video game industry. Microsoft previously paid $7.5 billion for Bethesda Softworks owner ZeniMax Media in 2020, so it's not surprising to see Microsoft swing for the fences with billions in cash resources.

Still, given the size of this transaction, shareholders will want to see good returns on this investment, especially after Microsoft just spent most of the $111 billion in cash and short-term investments it spent the last 30 years accumulating on its balance sheet.

Microsoft's gaming business just became one of the largest in the world. In fiscal 2023 (which ended in June), Microsoft's gaming revenue came to $15.5 billion, according to Statista estimates. Activision will add $8.7 billion to that total to bring Microsoft's gaming revenue to over $23 billion.

Activision will also contribute roughly $2.4 billion of free cash flow. But that means Microsoft paid a high price-to-free cash flow multiple of 28, which is expensive considering Activision's growth.

Over the last 10 years, Activision grew revenue by just 4.5% per year, with free cash flow growing 5.3% annually. Unless Microsoft can squeeze more growth out of this business, it might have overpaid.

When Microsoft originally announced the deal in January 2022, it spent as much time talking about the opportunity to expand into mobile gaming -- a $92 billion market -- as it did about cloud gaming opportunities. Although it doesn't have exclusive cloud gaming rights to Activision's future content, it should be able to grow Xbox Game Pass, which had 25 million subscribers in early 2022.

Game Pass has trailed Sony's 47 million subscribers in PS Plus, according to Statista. However, Microsoft now has a large pool of 356 million monthly active users to market new games and content to. This will satisfy one of Microsoft's top priorities, which is to build a community of players and increase the time players spend across a large portfolio of games. Those are the key ingredients that will create profitable growth opportunities in the video game industry.

Another overlooked opportunity for Microsoft is access to the intellectual property Activision has released going back to the 1980s. Microsoft will look to mine Activision's library for titles it can revive, and perhaps turn into valuable mobile properties. One that stands out is Guitar Hero, which Xbox head Phil Spencer has previously said he wants to revisit. Activision discontinued this franchise years ago, but the advantage of being part of Microsoft is that Activision can now take risks it couldn't before.

To answer the original question, no, I don't believe Microsoft wasted its cash. At least, it's too early to make that call. If Microsoft can help Activision release more new games at a faster pace and innovate with new ideas, the growth it could generate would go a long way toward justifying the cost of the acquisition. Depending on how much profit it can squeeze out of these franchises, this deal could look like a great value in a few years from now.
********
Microsoft is now a gaming juggernaut
********
Microsoft (MSFT) officially owns Activision Blizzard (ATVI), making it the third-largest gaming company in the world by revenue behind just Tencent and Sony (SONY). But the acquisition does more than boost Microsoft’s standing in the global gaming industry. It gives the company far greater access to the mobile gaming market, lines it up for revenue via mobile games advertising, and provides it with the opportunity to grow its Xbox Game Pass subscription service and Xbox Cloud Gaming streaming service.

“It's certainly a seismic shift in how the money flows around the gaming ecosystem,” explained International Data Corporation (IDC) research director Lewis Ward. “It is the biggest acquisition in Microsoft's history. It is one of the biggest acquisitions in the tech market. It is … by anyone’s measure, a big sea change.”

But don’t expect the company to start reaping the benefits of the $69-billion deal anytime soon. Microsoft still has a long way to go before it can begin to put its stamp on any of Activision Blizzard’s games like “Call of Duty” and longer still before its bet on cloud gaming pays off.

Microsoft is a major mobile player

Microsoft has never had much of a hand in the mobile gaming market. And while the console and PC markets are huge, bringing in $43 billion and $40 billion respectively in 2023, the mobile gaming market is even larger. According to a study by data.ai and IDC, the segment will bring in a whopping $103 billion this year alone.

But with Activision Blizzard, Microsoft is now one of the biggest players in mobile gaming. Activision Blizzard’s “Candy Crush Saga” was the second-highest-grossing mobile game in the world in the first half of 2023 behind only Tencent’s “Honor of Kings.” And as of Q2 2023, Activision Blizzard’s King mobile division had an incredible 238 million monthly active users. That’s far more than Activision’s 92 million, despite that arm running “Call of Duty,” or Blizzard’s 26 million.

Story continues

Blizzard gift cards are seen at the shop in Krakow, Poland, on July 17, 2023. (Jakub Porzycki/NurPhoto via Getty Images)

“The amount of revenue that 'Candy Crush' generates should not be underestimated,” said Forrester senior analyst Will McKeon-White. “Microsoft has also traditionally had a minimal ... mobile gaming presence. So this acquisition also significantly helps out with that.”

That mobile presence also gives Microsoft a significant leg up in the mobile advertising space. After all, mobile games generate money via either in-game sales or ads, and “Candy Crush” does both.

Subscriptions and cloud gaming are key

Outside of mobile gaming, Activision Blizzard gives Microsoft the firepower it needs to exploit its Game Pass subscription service and nascent Xbox Cloud Gaming. Game Pass gives subscribers access to hundreds of games that they can download to their Xbox consoles or PCs for $16.99 per month. The service has been a key portion of Microsoft’s gaming strategy, with CEO Satya Nadella regularly calling out the service during the company’s earnings calls.

In January, Nadella announced that the service had surpassed 120 million monthly active users. And with Activision Blizzard’s library of intellectual property, Microsoft can make Game Pass an even more appealing option for gamers, giving the company more firepower to drive subscriptions over time.

Then there’s the cloud gaming aspect of the deal. Microsoft is the leader in cloud gaming, and has opened up the service to a slew of new devices including smart TVs and even Meta’s (META) Quest 3 AR/VR headset. But cloud gaming is still in its early stages. The quality of streams doesn’t always match up to what you’d get playing games on a console or PC, and high-speed internet still isn’t available in portions of the US, let alone globally.

A general view of tradefairgoers is seen in front of the Xbox booth during the opening day of Gamescom at the Cologne Trade Fair Center in Cologne, Germany, on Aug. 23, 2023 (Ying Tang/NurPhoto via Getty Images).

“In terms of cloud gaming, we're still in the active experimentation phase,” McKeon-White said. “And while the current results are much better than they were previously, it's still ... not the best possible experience for playing video games, if we’re completely honest.”

It’s also important to note that cloud gaming is still a small portion of overall gaming revenue. But, eventually, the service could power Game Pass subscriptions.

“I think it is a positive for cloudstream gaming,” Ward said. “I think that it will be one of the drivers of growth over time, but let's not kid ourselves. Right now, it's only like 2% or 3% of market revenue. It's a very small component of total market revenue.”

Sign up for the Yahoo Finance Tech newsletter.

But as Microsoft perfects the technology and high-speed internet continues to spread across the globe, Xbox Cloud Gaming will become a far more attractive and viable option for gamers in regions where consoles and PCs are too expensive due to taxes or import restrictions.

Microsoft can take advantage of Activision Blizzard’s library

There’s one other aspect to Microsoft’s acquisition that could prove beneficial over time, and that’s how the company could take advantage of older Activision Blizzard properties. There are a slew of titles, such as “Guitar Hero,” that the gaming giant hasn’t worked on in years, and with Microsoft’s backing, it could begin to dig those out of storage and breathe new life into them.

What’s more, it gives Microsoft a boost to the number of first-party games it will release each year.

“There's just a critical mass that they probably weren't at prior to the acquisition, and this pushes them over the top,” Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter told Yahoo Finance. “You suddenly go from maybe a half a game a year of new content under the old Microsoft to four, five, plus ‘World of Warcraft.’ ”

Taken as a whole, the acquisition is a boon for Microsoft. Though it could take some time for it to begin to pay dividends. After all, with games already in development it will be a while before Microsoft has any real say in how Activision Blizzard develops new titles.

There’s also the looming threat that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) could break up the companies as part of its antitrust case against Microsoft. The FTC is moving forward with an in-house challenge to the deal and working on an appeal to a prior ruling against the commission’s effort to halt the move.

Still, if everything pans out in Microsoft’s favor, acquiring Activision Blizzard could be a turning point for the company, and the gaming industry as a whole.

Daniel Howley is the tech editor at Yahoo Finance. He's been covering the tech industry since 2011. You can follow him on Twitter @DanielHowley.

Click here for the latest technology business news, reviews, and useful articles on tech and gadgets

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
********
Microsoft spent two years trying to buy Santa Monica based Activision Blizzard. For Xbox CEO, that was the easy part
********
Listen to this post

After two years co-piloting the biggest acquisition in video game history past an onslaught of challenges, Xbox CEO Phil Spencer now moves on to his next quest: making Microsoft’s takeover of Santa Monica’s Activision Blizzard worth the hassle.

Microsoft, which owns the Xbox gaming system, closed its $69 billion deal to buy game-maker Activision Blizzard on Friday after fending off global opposition from antitrust regulators and rivals.

It marks a career-defining moment for Spencer, who first joined Microsoft as an intern in 1988 and has helmed Xbox since 2014. After years of lagging behind rival Sony’s PlayStation, acquiring Activision’s collection of popular game titles gives Microsoft a rare chance to catch up.

“His job really just starts today,” said analyst Gil Luria, technology strategist at D.A. Davidson, after the deal’s closure. “All he’s been doing is preparing for today where he actually gets to integrate the business.”

And it marks the end of an era for Activision Blizzard CEO Bobby Kotick, who’s led the Southern California maker of Call of Duty and other blockbuster franchises since 1991 after helping to buy it from bankruptcy. Kotick said he’s assisting with the transition until the end of the year.

Activision Blizzard was still reeling from worker protests, lawsuits and government investigations over allegations of workplace harassment against women and unequal pay when Microsoft privately reached out about buying the company in 2021.

When the companies announced a planned merger in January 2022, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella made clear it would be “critical for Activision Blizzard to drive forward” on its commitments to improve its workplace culture.

That was just the start of Microsoft’s challenges in bringing home the deal. After negotiations with Spencer faltered, top rival Sony brought its concerns about losing access to the Call of Duty franchise to regulators around the world. The strongest opposition came from U.S. antitrust enforcers emboldened by President Joe Biden’s administration to take a tougher look at big tech deals, as well as their counterparts in the United Kingdom who finally relented in approving the deal Friday only after Microsoft agreed to make concessions.

“Microsoft didn’t have a choice. If they wanted to be long-term competitive with Sony and the PlayStation platform, they need to have a much more robust content offering,” Luria said.

But, “in retrospect, they should have read the writing on the wall in terms of the difficulty of closing the deal,” Luria said. “They needed to do the deal to stay competitive, but knowing what they know now, they might have done it differently.”

A key moment came in June, when a federal judge weighed the U.S. Federal Trade Commission’s attempt to block the merger while it awaited further review. In an unusual move for a CEO that telegraphed the deal’s importance, Spencer spent the better part of two weeks at the defendant table of a San Francisco courtroom conferring with Microsoft’s lawyers. The judge eventually dismissed the FTC’s request, though the agency is still seeking to unwind the deal.

Microsoft’s success in integrating Activision’s business is “not guaranteed, especially as its track record with acquisitions has been a mixed bag,” said George Jijiashvili, senior principal analyst at research and advisory firm Omdia. Last year, Microsoft spent $7.5 billion to acquire ZeniMax Media, the parent company of video game publisher Bethesda Softworks, maker of Elder Scrolls and Fallout.

Microsoft’s two key game launches this year from its Bethesda merger, Redfall and Starfield, have “been met with mixed reactions at best,” Jijiashvili said. “However, with globally popular game franchises such as Call of Duty now under its wing, the company is strategically much better positioned.”

Another challenge for Microsoft will be overcoming the workforce challenges that dogged Activision before the takeover.

As of late last year, Activision Blizzard had 13,000 employees, about 72% in North America, according to a regulatory filing. Microsoft has already pledged it will stay neutral if the nearly 10,000 workers in the U.S. and Canada seek to organize into a labor union, part of a 2022 agreement with the Communications Workers of America meant to address U.S. political concerns about the merger’s effects.

“It is a new day for workers at Activision Blizzard,” said CWA President Claude Cummings Jr. in a statement Friday.

“Over two years ago, workers at Activision Blizzard’s studios captured the country’s attention through walkouts and other protests over discrimination, sexual harassment, pay inequity, and other issues they were facing on the job,” Cummings Jr. said. “Their efforts to form unions were met with illegal retaliation and attempts to delay and block union elections. Now these workers are free to join our union through a fair process, without interference from management.”

In a Friday welcome email to Activision employees, Spencer said he wanted to “reiterate that we hold ourselves to a high bar in delivering the most inclusive and welcoming experiences for players, creators, and employees.”

MATT O’BRIEN, AP Technology Writer
********
Activision Blizzard games are not coming to Xbox game pass yet
********
Xbox chief Phil Spencer has confirmed that Activision Blizzard games won’t be coming to Xbox Game Pass in the near future, dashing hopes of a big content drop following Microsoft’s acquisition of the publisher.

In the latest Xbox podcast, Spencer stated that due to the lengthy regulatory approval process for the $68.7 billion deal, Microsoft was unable to work with Activision Blizzard on preparing its back catalog for Xbox Game Pass. Now that the acquisition has officially closed, that work can begin, but Spencer cautioned it will take time. Spencer said:

“The regulatory process took so long… that we weren’t able to get in and work with Activision Blizzard on that back catalog work. Now that the deal is closed, we’re starting that work, but there is work. I think the Activision Twitter handle… did put out something that talked about 2024, and I think that’s accurate. I would love it if there was some kind of secret celebration drop that’s coming in the next couple of weeks — there’s not.”

Activision Blizzard previously confirmed on Twitter that the upcoming Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II and Diablo IV would not launch into Xbox Game Pass this year. However, uncertainty remained around older Activision titles until Spencer’s comments today.

Many Xbox fans anticipated that Microsoft would rapidly add legacy Call of Duty games and other Activision franchises to Game Pass once the deal closed. Windows Central reported this was likely, but so far, no surge of new content has materialized.

When Microsoft acquired Bethesda in 2021, it added 20 Bethesda games to Game Pass just two days after closing. Microsoft also recently fixed longstanding Xbox 360 Call of Duty multiplayer issues, further hinting at Activision integration.

However, according to Spencer, uncertainty around the acquisition slowed efforts to prepare Activision’s catalog for Xbox Game Pass. While disappointing for fans eager for more content, he reiterated this is a long-term investment focused on the future.

For now, Xbox supporters must wait patiently for beloved Activision franchises to hit Game Pass. With the deal now complete, Microsoft can finally begin the work of bringing Activision Blizzard’s games to its popular subscription service.

Featured Image Credit: Photo by FOX; Pexels; Thank you!
********
After blockbuster Microsoft deal, gaming giants are still sitting on $45 billion cash hoard
********
Gamers play the video game "Star Wars Battlefront II" during the "Paris Games Week" on Oct. 31, 2017. Chesno

Publicly listed gaming companies are sitting on a $45 billion pile of cash and cash equivalents — and that could lead to greater consolidation in the $188 billion video games market, according to a new report from venture capital firm Konvoy, which was shared exclusively with CNBC. The likes of Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts , Singapore's Sea , Japan's Nintendo and Bandai Namco , South Korea's Nexon , and China's NetEase , currently hold $45.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents, according Konvoy, which cited these companies' latest public reports.

Public gaming companies currently hold cash and cash equivalents of $45.1 billion, according to a report from venture capital firm Konvoy. Konvoy

That would give them more than enough financial firepower to look at potential acquisition targets that could help them build out their intellectual property and products. In particular, gaming firms are looking to keep gamers more engaged for longer with live-service games that add more content over time and paid subscription packages that offer a certain amount of free games and access to cloud gaming, or the ability to play games via the cloud rather than downloading them to their machines. Publicly listed gaming companies had a fairly rosy year in 2023, on the whole. The VanEck Video Gaming and eSports ETF , which seeks to track MVIS Global Video Gaming & eSports Index, has climbed 20% in the year to date, according to Konvoy. The blue-chip S&P 500 index, by contrast, has climbed close to 12% year to date.

The performance of public gaming ETFs since the start of 2023. Konvoy

The Global X Video Games & Esports ETF , which aims to track a modified market-cap-weighted global index of companies in video games and esports, hasn't performed as well, slipping 0.4% since the start of 2023.

Big Tech eyes video games

Big Tech firms are also primed with plenty of cash to consider more gaming deals, according to Konvoy. The VC firm said that the world's biggest tech firms which includes Amazon , Microsoft , Google, Apple , Meta , Netflix , China's Tencent , and Japan's Sony , have a combined $229.4 billion of cash on their balance sheets to deploy on potential deals.

Josh Chapman, a partner at Konvoy, said the company expects the Microsoft-Activision deal — which saw the Redmond, Washington-based technology giant pay $69 billion for U.S. game publisher Activision Blizzard — would likely lead to further mergers and acquisition activity and create a new generation of gaming companies. "As active gaming investors, we believe that gamers and gaming startups stand to benefit from the deal as it improves the value-proposition for gamers and leads to a vibrant M&A environment for other deals to get closed," Chapman told CNBC in emailed comments. Cloud gaming is a key area for Microsoft as it brings Activision into its growing portfolio of game publishers. The company is pushing its cloud gaming service, which does away with the need for traditional consoles likes its Xbox Series X or Sony's PlayStation 5, with its Xbox Game Pass subscription product. Chapman said this would lead to "new opportunities for emerging game developers, infrastructure companies and gaming platforms." Microsoft's blockbuster acquisition of Activision Blizzard was approved by the U.K.'s Competition and Markets Authority earlier this month. The deal, valued at $69 billion, will see Microsoft gain ownership of some of the most lucrative properties in video games, including the massive Call of Duty franchise, Candy Crush, Crash Bandicoot, Warcraft, Diablo, and Overwatch.

VC deal slump

Venture capital investment into video game firms slumped 64% year over year in the third quarter of 2023, according to Konvoy's report.

Total venture funding into the video games industry in the third quarter of 2023 fell 9% quarter-over-quarter, to $454 million. Konvoy

It's a sign of how, despite the boost to the industry from Microsoft's landmark deal, the boom times for the industry in 2020 and 2021 have ebbed. Gaming startups raised a combined $454 million globally for the three months to September, down 9% quarter over quarter and more than 64% from the same three-month period a year ago.

Still, Konvoy's Chapman anticipates the picture for gaming VCs and startups will look brighter next year, as grim venture investing conditions start to improve — however, funding for gaming firms has returned to a " sustainable new normal" that will continue at the current pace for the next few years. "As the global venture market rebounds we expect gaming, which was somewhat insulated from the initial impact of the economic downturn, to follow," Chapman told CNBC. "We anticipate gaming VC funding to see a slight uptick over the next few quarters, when the industry will grow at a similar rate to before the pandemic." "Right now, VC deal volume and funding are comparable to pre-pandemic levels, and while we may not see the exponential growth of 2021, we're excited to see a stable venture funding market in gaming for continued value creation in the industry."

Tougher times

Video game publishers have been grappling with a deterioration of macroeconomic conditions, with high inflation and rising interest rates denting consumer appetite for discretionary spending. Whereas in 2020, when consumers were flush with cash thanks to easy monetary conditions, times have gotten tougher in 2022 and 2023 as central bankers have increased interest rates in a bid to stem rising prices. Still, the video game player base continues to increase, with a worldwide player base of 3.381 million today, according to Konvoy. The video game market is still massive, and is projected to reach $188 billion in overall sales in 2023, according to Konvoy. That figure is up a modest 3% from the previous year, when gaming sales totaled $183 billion. But growth has accelerated slightly from 2022, when gaming sales rose only 2%. That came after the standout year of 2021. Gaming revenue reached $180 billion that year, climbing more than 8% from $166 billion in 2020 I assume, according to Konvoy's research. In 2020, the industry saw even bigger growth — more than 9% year over year. That was when pandemic lockdowns were in full swing, and people had more time to spend playing video games indoors. Konvoy is projecting long-term growth for the games industry in the coming years, though. The firm said that it expects a compound annual growth rate of 9% in the next five years, with the industry reaching a whopping $288 billion in overall sales by 2028. WATCH: Bandai Namco Entertainment discusses the success of 'Elden Ring'
********
Microsoft to begin “doubling down” on games following acquisition of Activision, CEO says
********
Following the acquisition of Activision Blizzard, Microsoft’s CEO, Satya Nadella, has revealed that the company is “looking forward to really doubling down both as a game producer and a publisher”.

In an interview with Axel Springer (via Insider) , Nadella was asked about the importance of the deal being approved, and he spoke about the company being able to make a “real contribution” to consumer markets.

“When I think about Microsoft, I think of perhaps developer tools, proprietary software, and gaming. Those are three things that we've done from the very beginning,” Nadella explained. “And so, to us, gaming is the one place where we think we have a real contribution to make in consumer markets.

“If I look at it, the amount of time people allocate to gaming is going up and Gen Z is going to do more of that. The way games are made, the way the games are delivered, is changing radically. Whether it's mobile, or consoles, or PCs, or even the cloud,” he continued. “So, we're looking forward to really doubling down both as a game producer and a publisher. Now we'll be one of the largest game publishers and also as a company that's building platforms for it.”

Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision was officially closed earlier this month , following the UK regulator, the Competition and Markets Authority, giving its approval to an amended version of the deal. It blocked the original deal over concerns that it could harm competition in cloud gaming in the UK, but Microsoft addressed this by stating that it will sell the cloud streaming rights for current and new Activision games (releasing across the next 15 years) to Ubisoft.

In a statement released when the deal was closed, Xbox boss Phil Spencer said: "Today we start the work to bring beloved Activision, Blizzard, and King franchises to Game Pass and other platforms. We’ll share more about when you can expect to play in the coming months. We know you’re excited – and we are too."
********
Microsoft-Activision is a done deal – but what if the FTC still wins? Ask Whole Foods.
********
Federal Trade Commission seal is seen at a news conference to announce that Facebook Inc has agreed to a settlement of allegations it mishandled user privacy at FTC Headquarters in Washington, U.S., July 24, 2019. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas/File Photo Acquire Licensing Rights

Oct 19 (Reuters) - Champagne corks may have been popping in Redmond, Washington, last week after Microsoft (MSFT.O) closed its $69 billion acquisition of video game maker Activision Blizzard (ATVI.MX), but the tech giant’s fight with U.S. antitrust regulators isn’t over yet.

Although the Federal Trade Commission to date has lost every attempt to halt the merger, the antitrust enforcer isn’t stepping down. Agency lawyers are set to appear before a federal appeals court in December to argue the deal is anticompetitive, while also prepping for an in-house administrative trial further down the road.

Back in the day, I wrote about antitrust litigation as a reporter, and the Microsoft-Activision tie-up got me thinking about another hotly contested deal I covered.

In 2008, the FTC scored a narrow appellate win in challenging Whole Foods’ $565 million acquisition of rival grocer Wild Oats -- a decision that came nearly a year after the two supermarket chains had consummated their merger, and one that forced Whole Foods into a costly settlement.

Could something similar happen to Microsoft and Activision?

Probably not, said now-retired Dechert partner Paul Denis, who was Whole Foods' lead lawyer.

To be sure, the FTC litigates just a handful of merger cases each year, and each one plays out differently.

For example, the agency is currently deep in litigation against Illumina over the company's already-consummated acquisition of cancer detection test maker Grail.

The Whole Foods case also had unique appellate quirks that are unlikely to be duplicated -- but procedurally, the Microsoft case has been unfolding in a strikingly similar way.

The Microsoft challenge “feels very familiar,” Denis told me. “The FTC is clearly trying to plow some new ground -- as they attempted with Whole Foods and now with Microsoft” in pursuing aggressive theories of antitrust enforcement.

Microsoft, which already made significant concessions to win approval from competition regulators in Britain and Europe, says the Activision merger will benefit consumers and the video game industry by bringing “more games to more people.”

A Microsoft spokesperson declined to comment directly on the litigation, but President Brad Smith in a blog post noted the company has garnered friend-of-the-court support from antitrust scholars, economists and former government officials, as well as business and labor groups – “an almost unprecedented range of diverse parties,” Smith wrote.

The agency is undeterred. “The FTC continues to believe this deal is a threat to competition,” spokesperson Victoria Graham said via email. “We remain focused on the federal appeal process despite Microsoft and Activision closing their deal.”

The FTC asserts that Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision, which makes the wildly popular “Call of Duty” series, would enable the combined company “to suppress competitors to its Xbox gaming consoles and its rapidly growing subscription and cloud-gaming business.”

As it did with Whole Foods 16 years ago, the FTC filed what’s known as a Part 3 administrative complaint to block the merger, arguing the tie-up would stifle competition and harm consumers.

Agency lawyers in both cases also sued the companies in federal court, seeking a preliminary injunction to stop the deals from being consummated pending resolution of the slower-moving administrative action.

And in both cases, the FTC was soundly defeated in district court.

As San Francisco-based U.S. District Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley in siding with Microsoft wrote in a 53-page opinion in July, the FTC “has not shown a likelihood it will prevail on its claim” that the merger may substantially lessen competition. If anything, she found, the “evidence points to more consumer access to Call of Duty and other Activision content.”

In the Whole Foods case, the FTC unsuccessfully argued that the grocer, which at the time had 194 stores, would gain a near-monopoly in the “premium, natural and organic supermarket” category by acquiring 110 stores from Wild Oats.

Whole Foods, which was subsequently bought by Amazon in 2017, did not respond to a request for comment.

The FTC in each instance appealed its losses, but failed to win emergency injunctions from higher courts that would freeze the mergers while litigation was pending.

Both Microsoft and Whole Foods then went on to close their deals, apparently gambling the FTC was a paper tiger and they’d live happily ever after in post-merger bliss.

For Whole Foods, it didn’t quite work out that way.

The original trio of D.C. Circuit judges that rebuked the FTC’s bid for an emergency stay had changed, with Judge Janice Rogers Brown replacing Judge David Sentelle.

The substitution proved fateful, Denis said. In a surprise move, the court in a 2-1 decision remanded the case for further consideration, with Brown writing that the lower court judge didn’t focus enough on how the merger might affect Whole Foods’ “core” customers.

At that point, it made little business sense for Whole Foods to keep fighting, not with the threat of drawn-out a Part 3 trial hanging over its head – a process which by statute is only available to the FTC, not the Justice Department. The two agencies share responsibility for antitrust enforcement, but DOJ is confined to litigating in federal court -- but that’s another column.

“Whole Foods ended up having to settle,” Denis said, agreeing in 2009 to divest 32 stores and the Wild Oats brand name.

It was a possibility the company had “war-gamed out” ahead of time, he said. As a horizontal merger between direct competitors, such divestitures are the usual fix to mollify regulators.

The Microsoft-Activision case is a vertical merger, however, where the companies operate in the same industry but provide different services. That can make it harder to predict what concessions would satisfy regulators, Denis said.

Microsoft is represented by Wilkinson Stekloff; Weil Gotshal & Manges; and Sidley Austin, with Activision turning to Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom.

As my Reuters colleagues reported, Microsoft agreed to sell the non-European streaming rights to Activision’s games to Ubisoft Entertainment to assuage concerns by Britain's Competition and Markets Authority, which approved the merger on Oct. 13.

The FTC said it’s still weighing these concessions.

The new Ubisoft agreement, agency spokesperson Graham said, “presents a whole new facet to the merger that will affect American consumers, which the FTC will assess as part of its ongoing administrative proceeding.”

Reporting by Jenna Greene

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

Opinions expressed are those of the author. They do not reflect the views of Reuters News, which, under the Trust Principles, is committed to integrity, independence, and freedom from bias.
********
40 studios to rule them all: inside Microsoft Gaming divisions post-Activision Blizzard deal
********
Now that Activision Blizzard has joined Microsoft, it has one of the most impressive portfolios of game studios in the industry. Let’s take a closer look at all of its development and publishing subsidiaries, as well as their key IPs.

Since Phil Spencer took over Xbox, Microsoft’s gaming business has expanded significantly, largely thanks to the multi-billion acquisitons of ZeniMax Media and Activision Blizzard (as well as a number of smaller M&A deals).

The company now owns roughly 40 subsidiaries, including game development studios, publishers, and support teams. All of them are part of the larger Microsoft Gaming organization, which is led by Spencer as CEO.

Below are Microsoft’s main first-party studios broken down into three divisions: Xbox Game Studios, ZeniMax Media, and Activision Blizzard. But keep in mind that the company is likely to make some changes to its structure after completing its latest $68.7 billion deal, which could lead to some internal mergers and even layoffs or the divestment of certain smaller assets.

Xbox Game Studios

Turn 10 Studios (established by Microsoft)

Founded : 2002

: 2002 IP : Forza Motorsport

: Forza Motorsport Games released: 9

Founded in 2001, Turn 10 is still led by its co-founder Dan Greenawalt, who also serves as general manager of the Forza Motorsport franchise. He oversaw the production of all titles in the series, including the Forza Horizon IP (developed by Playground Games).

Forza Motorsport (2023)

343 Industries (established by Microsoft)

Founded : 2007

: 2007 IP : Halo

: Halo Games released: 11

Bonnie Ross started 343 Industries in 2007, shortly after Bungie announced its split from Microsoft, to manage the further development of the Halo franchise. Since then, the studio has helped ship 11 games, including Halo: The Master Chief Collection and Halo Infinite.

The latter became a live service title, and 343 is now putting all its efforts into content support of the game by releasing new seasons, game modes, and (recently) the Forge AI Toolkit. However, a number of key developers have left the team since October 2020, including Bonnie Ross, art director Nicolas Bouvier, and technical director David Berger.

Halo Infinite

The Coalition (established by Microsoft)

Founded : 2010

: 2010 IP : Gears of War

: Gears of War Games released: 5

Originally known as Zipline Studios, it was rebranded Microsoft Game Studios Vancouver shortly after being founded in 2010. The team was assigned to the eventually canceled AAA shooter for Kinect, but was later renamed Black Tusk Studios to create a new Xbox franchise for the corporation.

In 2014, Microsoft acquired the Gears of War IP from Epic Games and put Black Tusk (this time renamed to The Coalition) in charge of the series. Since then, the studio has released Gears of War 4 and Gears 5, as well as contributed to Gears Tactics and The Matrix Awakens demo.

Gears 5

The Initiative (established by Microsoft)

Founded : 2018

: 2018 IP : Perfect Dark

: Perfect Dark Games released: 0

Phil Spencer announced the formation of The Initiative in 2018, with the studio being led by industry veteran and former Crystal Dynamics head Darrell Gallagher. It is now working on the reboot of Perfect Dark, which was announced at The Game Awards 2020.

However, the game unfortunately got stuck in a sort of development hell. During 2021, dozens of developers left The Initiative, including core writers, designers, and game director Dan Neuburger (was in charge of several Tomb Raider games).

The studio even partnered with Crystal Dynamisc to finish Perfect Dark, but its current state is still unclear. In August 2023, IGN reported that the game is still “roughly two to three years away from being ready for release.”

Perfect Dark

World’s Edge (established by Microsoft)

Founded : 2019

: 2019 IP : Age of Empires, Age of Mythology

: Age of Empires, Age of Mythology Games released: 6

The studio was started in 2019 by creative director Adam Isgreen (best known for his work on the Command & Conquer series) and Shannon Loftis (retired in February 2022). World’s Edge mainly focuses on the Age of Empires IP, having already developed AoE IV (not to mention the remasters of the two previous main installments in the series).

Right now, the team is also helping TiMi Studio Group, a subsidiary of Tencent and developer of Call of Duty: Mobile, with Age of Empires Mobile. It is yet to be launched globally, but its Chinese version, Return to Empire, broke into the top 10 highest-grossing iOS games in the country upon its release in March 2021.

Age of Empires IV

Rare (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2002

: 2002 IP : Sea of Thieves, Killer Instinct, Battletoads

: Sea of Thieves, Killer Instinct, Battletoads Games released under Microsoft: around 20

Since its inception in 1985, Rare has developed dozens of titles, including classics such as Battletoads, Killer Instinct, Golden Eye 007, and Perfect Dark. Although Microsoft acquired the studio in 2002, it continued to make games for Nintendo and other publishers for several years.

As part of Xbox Game Studios, Rare is best known for Kameo: Elements of Power, Conker: Live & Reloaded, Perfect Dark Zero, Viva Piñata, and, of course, its live service hit Sea of Thieves. It is likely the most diverse studio in Microsoft’s portfolio in terms of genres.

Sea of Thieves

Mojang Studios (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2014

: 2014 IP : Minecraft

: Minecraft Games released under Microsoft: 4

In 2014, Minecraft creator Markus Persson left Mojang and sold the studio to Microsoft for $2.5 billion. The team is still supporting the game, which remains the best-selling title of all time with over 300 million units sold globally.

Since the acquisition, Mojang has developed card game Caller’s Bane and strategy Crown and Council, as well as Minecraft spin-offs, Dungeons and Legends.

Minecraft

Ninja Theory (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2018

: 2018 IP : Hellblade

: Hellblade Games released under Microsoft: 1

Founded in 2000, Ninja Theory partnered with Microsoft for its debut game Kung Fu Chaos. After that, the studio made a PS3 exclusive Heavenly Sword, also making the name for itself with titles like Enslaved: Odyssey to the West and DmC: Devil May Cry.

In 2017, Ninja Theory released Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice, which received critical acclaim and sold over 1 million units. Microsoft acquired the team for $117 million in June 2018.

Its only project under Xbox Game Studio was the multiplayer game Bleeding Edge, which was shut down less than a year after launch due to mixed reception. Ninja Theory’s next title, Senua’s Saga: Hellblade II, is expected to come out in 2024.

Senua’s Saga: Hellblade II

Playground Games (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2018

: 2018 IP : Forza Horizon, Fable

: Forza Horizon, Fable Games released under Microsoft: 5

Founded in 2010 by former Codemasters employees Gavin Raeburn, Trevor Williams, and Ralph Fulton, Playground Games has been closely working with Microsoft even before the acquisition in June 2018. Although the racing genre and the Forza Horizon series remain its main focus, the studio is now working on the reboot of another popular Xbox IP, Fable.

Forza Horizon 5

Compulsion Games (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2018

: 2018 IP : We Happy Few, South of Midnight

: We Happy Few, South of Midnight Games released under Microsoft: 0

Compulsion Games was founded in 2009 by former Arkane Studios producer Guillaume Provost. It developed two titles, platformer Contrast and action game We Happy Few, before being acquired by Microsoft in June 2018. Earlier this year, Xbox announced the studio’s next project, South of Midnight.

South of Midnight

Undead Labs (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2018

: 2018 IP : State of Decay

: State of Decay Games released under Microsoft: 0

ArenaNet co-founder Jeff Strain started Undead Labs after leaving NCSoft in 2009. Best known for the State of Decay series, the studio was acquired by Microsoft in June 2018. Strain has since left the company and founded Possibility Space in 2021.

The current status of Undead Labs’ next game, State of Decay 3, is still unclear. As of April 2022, it was reportedly trapped in pre-production, as some employees accused the studio of mismanagement, toxic behavior, and sexism.

State of Decay 3

Obsidian Entertainment (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2018

: 2018 IP : Pillars of Eternity, The Outer Worlds, Grounded

: Pillars of Eternity, The Outer Worlds, Grounded Games released under Microsoft: 3

Founded in 2003 by five former Black Isle developers, including Feargus Urquhart and Chris Avellone, Obsidian made a name for itself with RPGs like Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, Neverwinter Nights 2, Fallout: New Vegas, and Pillars of Eternity.

Microsoft acquired the studio in November 2018. Since then, Obsidian has released The Outer Worlds, the survival game Grounded, and the smaller role-playing adventure Pentiment. It is now working on its next big RPG, Avowed, and the sequel to The Outer Worlds.

Avowed

inXile Entertainment (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2018

: 2018 IP : Wasteland, The Bard’s Tale

: Wasteland, The Bard’s Tale Games released under Microsoft: 3

Industry veteran Brian Fargo started inXile Entertainment in 2002, shortly after leaving Interplay, a company he co-founded in 1983. Having worked on many classic RPGs, the new team decided to keep making games in the genre, with The Bard’s Tale as its debut project.

After that, inXile released titles like Wasteland 2 and Torment: Tides of Numenera before being snapped up by Microsoft in November 2018. Since the acquisition, the studio has released Wasteland Remastered, Wasteland 3, and VR shooter Frostpoint, and is now working on its new IP, steampunk RPG Clockwork Revolution.

Clockwork Revolution

Double Fine Productions (acquired)

Joined Microsoft : 2019

: 2019 IP : Psychonauts

: Psychonauts Games released under Microsoft: 1

The studio was founded in 2000 by industry veteran Tim Schafer, who remains its CEO and president to this date. Its portfolio includes Psychonauts, Costume Quest, Brutal Legend, and Broken Age, as well as remasters of classic adventures like Full Throttle and Grim Fandango.

In 2019, Microsoft acquired Double Fine Productions for an undisclosed sum, helping the team ship Psychonauts 2.

Psychonauts 2

ZeniMax Media

In 2020, Microsoft acquired ZeniMax for $7.5 billion, along with all its subsidiaries.

Bethesda Softworks (publishing arm) / Bethesda Game Studios (game development)

Joined ZeniMax : 1999

: 1999 IP : The Elder Scrolls, Fallout, Starfield

: The Elder Scrolls, Fallout, Starfield Games released under Microsoft: 1

Bethesda has been making video games since 1986, serving as both developer and publisher of its projects. In 1999, it was acquired by ZeniMax Media, with the deal also resulting in a long-lasting lawsuit with founder Christopher Weaver, who accused his new business partners of outsing him from the company.

In 2001, it split into two divisions, Bethesda Softworks (publishes all titles within the ZeniMax family and sometimes third-party projects) and Bethesda Game Studios (developer of The Elder Scrolls and Fallout series). Since the deal with Microsoft, the studio has released one game so far — Starfield, which attracted over 10 million players and became one of the best-selling games of 2023.

Starfield

ZeniMax Online Studios

Established by ZeniMax : 2007

: 2007 IP : The Elder Scrolls Online

: The Elder Scrolls Online Games released under Microsoft: 0

ZeniMax established an online division with the help of Dark Age of Camelot producer Matt Firor specifically to create MMO titles based on its franchises. In 2014, the studio released The Elder Scrolls Online and is now working on an unannounced project based on a new IP.

The Elder Scrolls Online

id Software

Joined ZeniMax : 2009

: 2009 IP : Doom, Quake

: Doom, Quake Games released under Microsoft: 0

The pioneer of the first-person shooter genre, id Software is still one of the most recognized game developers worldwide. Having released dozens of titles, the studio is best known for its Doom and Quake franchises.

After being acquired by ZeniMax in 2009, id Software launched Doom (2016), Rage 1-2, and Doom Eternal.

Doom Eternal

Arkane Studios

Joined ZeniMax : 2010

: 2010 IP : Dishonored, Prey, Deathloop

: Dishonored, Prey, Deathloop Games released under Microsoft: 1

Founded in 2000 by Raphael Colantonio (currently runs his new studio, WolfEye), Arkane made a name for itself with complex immersive games, Arx Fatalis and Dark Messiah of Might and Magic. It currently has two main offices in Lyon and Austin.

In 2010, Bethesda approached the team with an idea for a first-person stealth game named Dishonored and eventually acquired the studio in August of that year. Arkane went on to develop the game in its own fashion, followed by a sequel, Prey, and Deathloop.

The latter came out after Microsoft’s acquisition of ZeniMax, but remained a timed exclusive to the PlayStation platform under the existing deal. Earlier this year, Arkane released Redfall, a co-cop shooter that received negative reviews, not to mention its production suffered from poor management and talent attrition.

Redfall

MachineGames

Joined ZeniMax : 2010

: 2010 IP : Wolfenstein

: Wolfenstein Games released under Microsoft: 0

Founded in 2009 by Kjell Emanuelsson, Jim Kjellin, and five other former Starbreeze employees, MachineGames first started working with Bethesda in 2010 to develop a new game in the Wolfenstein series. Shortly after, the studio was acquired by ZeniMax.

Best known for Wolfenstein: The New Order and its sequel The Old Blood, MachineGames is now working on an untitled game based on the Indiana Jones IP.

Wolfenstein: The Old Blood

Tango Gameworks

Joined ZeniMax : 2010

: 2010 IP : The Evil Within, Hi-Fi Rush

: The Evil Within, Hi-Fi Rush Games released under Microsoft: 1

Founded in 2010 by Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami, Tango Gameworks soon ran into financial issues and became a subsidiary of ZeniMax Asia. Under new management, the studio developed the survival horror game The Evil Within and its sequel.

Following Microsoft’s acquisition of ZeniMax, Tango Gameworks released Ghostwire: Tokyo, which was a timed exclusive to the PlayStation platform. Its latest title, the rhythm-based action game Hi-Fi Rush, came out as a surprise Xbox project earlier this year.

Hi-Fi Rush

Alpha Dog Games

Joined ZeniMax: 2019

Known for mobile action RPG Wraithborne, Alpha Dog was acquired by ZeniMax in 2019 and currently serves as one of Microsoft’s in-house mobile development teams. Earlier this year, the studio launched top-down shooter Mighty Doom for iOS and Android, which generated nearly $1 million in its first two weeks.

Might Doom

Roundhouse Studios

Joined ZeniMax: 2019

Roundhouse was established under Bethesda Softworks in 2019, shortly after Human Head Studios announced its closure. The latter is the creator of the original Prey, shooter Brink, and the Rune series. New games from the studio are yet to be announced.

Prey (2006)

Activision Blizzard King

On October 13, 2023, Microsoft closed its $68.7 billion acquisition of Activision Blizzard following a nearly two-year fight with antitrust regulators.

Activision Publishing

Founded : 1979

: 1979 IP: Call of Duty, Guitar Hero, Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater etc.

The modern history of Activision started in 1991, when Bobby Kotick took over the financially unstable company for $500k and ultimately turned it into the gaming giant it is today. It has released hundreds of games over the past 30+ years, including Quake, Heretic, Guitar Hero, and Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater.

Activision is currently responsible for managing all of its in-house studios and publishing their games, mainly the Call of Duty series.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III

Raven Software

Joined Activision : 1997

: 1997 IP: Heretic, Singularity, Soldier of Fortune

Brian and Steve Raffel founded Raven in 1990. In its early days, the studio worked closely with id Software, using its engine for games like Heretic and Hexen. As part of Activision, which acquired it for $12 million in 1997, Raven developed Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, Soldier of Fortune, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, and Singularity.

Since 2010, the studio has been a support team on the Call of Duty series, helping other in-house developers. Last year, a group of Raven testers also formed the first union at a major US game company, which was recognized by Activision.

Hexen

Infinity Ward

Joined Activision : 2003

: 2003 IP: Call of Duty

Founded in 2002 by Vince Zampella, Jason West, and Gran Collier, Infinity Ward is the original creator of the Call of Duty series. Activision served not only as a publisher, but also as an investor, holding a 30% stake in the studio and eventually acquiring it in 2003.

Infinity Ward is still in charge of the CoD franchise, working closely with other in-house studios so that Activision can keep releasing new games every year.

Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare

Treyarch

Joined Activision : 2001

: 2001 IP: Call of Duty, Die by the Sword

Treyarch, known in its early days for the Die by the Sword series, was acquired by Activision five years after its founding in 1996. It also worked on Spider-Man titles before being assigned to the Call of Duty franchise, especially the Black Ops series.

Call of Duty: Black Ops II

Sledghammer Games

Joined Activision : 2009

: 2009 IP: Call of Duty

In July 2009, Dead Space creator Glen Schofield left Electronic Arts and co-founded Seldgehammer Games. Just a few months after, the studio was acquired by Activision, which assigned it to the Call of Duty franchise. It is known for working on the following games in the series: Modern Warfare 3 (2011), Advanced Warfare, and Vanguard.

Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare

Toys for Bob

Joined Activision : 2005

: 2005 IP: Call of Duty, Crash Bandicoot, Skylanders

Founded in 2001, Toys for Bob is known for the Star Control series and licensed games based on popular IPs. In 2005, Activision acquired the studio, which went on to create the successful Skylanders franchise. Toys for Bob also made remasters of Spyro and Crash Bandicoot, as well as Crash Bandicoot 4, before becoming another support studio for Call of Duty.

Skylanders: Spyro’s Adventure

High Moon Studios

Joined Activision: 2008

Founded in 2001, High Moon was one of the studios that joined Activision as part of the deal with Vivendi in 2008 and the subsequent formation of Activision Blizzard. It is known for several Transformers games and 2013’s Deadpool, as well as its assistant work on the Call of Duty series.

Deadpool

Radical Enertainment

Joined Activision : 2008

: 2008 IP: Call of Duty, Crash Bandicoot, Skylanders

Founded in 1991, Radical Entertainment is known for many licensed games, including The Simpsons: Hit & Run. Since Activision’s merger with Vivendi, the studio has only developed Crash: Mind over Mutant, Prototype 1-2, and served as a support team for Destiny.

Prototype 2

Blizzard Entertainment

Joined Activision : 2008

: 2008 IP: Diablo, Warcraft, StarCraft, World of Warcraft

Since its establishment in 1991, Blizzard has become one of the most recognized game developers thanks to its rich portfolio of successful franchises. It joined Activision in 2008 following the Vivendi deal. Despite its recent struggles with poorly received titles and the infamous harassment scandal, Blizzard remains a valuable asset. Its latest game, Diablo IV, generated $666 million globally in its first five days.

World of Warcraft

King

Joined Activision : 2016

: 2016 IP: Candy Crush Saga

Founded in 2003, King is one of the leading mobile publishers in the world that operates Candy Crush Saga and its sequels/spin-offs like Jelly Saga and Friends Saga. This IP has already surpassed $20 billion in lifetime revenue. In 2016, Activision acquired King for $5.6 billion.

Candy Crush Saga

Other Microsoft Gaming subsidiaries worth mentioning
********
Xbox leadership addressed Blizzard staff for the first time today, striving to earn the studio's 'trust'
********
What you need to know

Xbox recently acquired Activision-Blizzard-King for 69 billion dollars.

The acquisition comes at a difficult time for Microsoft, whose gaming firm is lagging behind competitors like PlayStation and Tencent, and faces a battle for attention with companies like Apple.

Microsoft has been touring its new studios over the last few weeks, and today met with Blizzard.

During a speech to staff shared with us by sources familiar, Xbox lead Phil Spencer said he wants to help Blizzard achieve its dreams and be a source of trust for the studio.

Microsoft finalized its acquisition of Activision Blizzard King a couple of weeks ago, giving Xbox full control over franchises like Crash Bandicoot, World of Warcraft, and Call of Duty. The merging of two of the game industry's most prolific companies comes after years of regulatory battles across the world, and stands to mark a new era for both Microsoft and Activision Blizzard.

To mark the occasion, Xbox's leadership team comprised of Phil Spencer, Matt Booty, Sarah Bond, and others visited Blizzard's headquarters today in Irvine, California, with the team addressing staff for the first time.

Sources familiar with the commentary noted that it was a relatively low-key affair and that Spencer emphasized that he had no "answers" today and that right now, Xbox was listening to the needs and desires of staffers instead. Spencer said that Microsoft is striving to be a source of trust for Blizzard, and wants to enable Blizzard to achieve its visions and dreams. The sentiments echo similar comments Spencer has made to other acquired studios, in that Microsoft wants to help developers create their dream games.

I've written in the past how Blizzard "changed" after it merged with Activision, whose shareholder culture demanded a very specific type of experience — often to the detriment of quality. I would argue that Blizzard has found its footing again in recent years, with World of Warcraft in a better shape than it has been in years, and Diablo 4 reaching a level of photorealism we rarely see in the industry in general. Microsoft's leadership reportedly remarked that they see Blizzard as the "Pixar" of the gaming industry, owing to the pioneering nature of the brand, and the legacy of innovating with new genres and technologies.

It’s the beginning of a new chapter for @Blizzard_Ent - a 2+ year journey and we couldn’t be happier. pic.twitter.com/3JFJhNqSrcOctober 24, 2023 See more

It's a tad speculative, but I was told as well that Activision branding was notably decoupled from Blizzard during the event. The backdrop shared by the Xbox team at the event featured only Xbox and Blizzard branding. Indeed, former Xbox CVP and current Blizzard President Mike Ybarra shared the above canvas showing Blizzard and Xbox iconography present side by side. It could be indicative that Blizzard will regain some managerial independence from Activision, who has often been criticized to me as "meddling" from both current and former Blizzard staff.

Kind of cool seeing the Xbox leadership team on site today! pic.twitter.com/d2dneCCntFOctober 24, 2023 See more

Activision was present on the ground too, though. Activision's EVP for Corporate Affairs Lulu Cheng Meservey shared some shots of Xbox CVP Sarah Bond and Xbox CEO Phil Spencer on Blizzard's campus. I'm told the team shared stories of Blizzard games they'd played with staff, and that there was an air of optimism for the future — albeit with some quiet anxiety.

Onboarding some new colleagues at the Blizzard campus today pic.twitter.com/e6Lr7ptOw4October 24, 2023 See more

Inspired to be with these amazing women! pic.twitter.com/KsmXVdNJL8October 24, 2023 See more

Blizzard has had a difficult few years. Layoffs have been an ever-present fixture at the studio, atop a legacy of toxic workplace culture that saw the brand make headlines for all the wrong reasons.

Microsoft stepping in to take the reins should serve as something of a "page-turner" for Blizzard, although as Phil Spencer said, there needs to be some answers to some of the most burning questions. Will Microsoft seek its own round of layoffs? Will Microsoft seek to downsize or kill off certain games in maintenance mode? What other potentially disruptive decisions could Microsoft hand down from upon high?

Some of the best Xbox games of all time were created by the experts at Blizzard. I hope Microsoft is working to answer those lingering questions soon, and hopefully lead Blizzard to a much-deserved brighter future. We'll likely have to wait a while longer to know for certain, though. Xbox has already confirmed its next event, but its new studios at Activision Blizzard will not be present there. Indeed, we won't even see Activision Blizzard games land on Xbox Game Pass until 2024, it seems.
********
Kotick to Depart Activision Blizzard
********
Activision Blizzard Inc. said its long-serving chief executive, Bobby Kotick, will step down following the recent closure of its merger with Microsoft Inc.

Kotick has been at Activision Blizzard’s helm since its very beginning in 2008. He previously served as chief executive of video game publisher Activision Inc. from 1991 to 2008.

During that time, Activision was brought back from near bankruptcy and acquired a series of development studios. Kotick then played a crucial role in the organization and execution of a merger with the gaming division of French entertainment company Vivendi SE, including its subsidiary Blizzard Entertainment Inc. The merger closed in 2008, creating Activision Blizzard Inc., with Kotick in charge.

Since then, the Santa Monica-based company has become one of the largest and most profitable video game companies in the world, boasting iconic franchises including “Call of Duty” and “Overwatch.” The company was acquired by Microsoft this month after more than a year and a half of pushback from regulators including the Federal Trade Commission and the United Kingdom’s Competition and Markets Authority. The deal, worth a reported $68.7 billion, closed on Oct. 13.

“Combining with Microsoft will bring new resources and new opportunities to our extraordinary teams worldwide,” Kotick said in a note to employees. “It will also enable us to deliver more fun, more joy and more connection to more players than ever before.”

Kotick is the co-chairman of the Call of Duty Endowment, a nonprofit that he co-founded with Brian Kelly, the chairman of Activision Blizzard. The endowment funds organizations that help veterans find “high-quality careers” after leaving military service and promotes awareness of the value veterans bring to the workplace.

In the fall of 2021, about 1,000 Activision Blizzard employees signed a petition asking for Kotick to be removed from the company. The company previously settled cases with the Securities and Exchanges Commission and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which alleged, respectively, that Activision failed to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and that it “subject(ed) employees to sexual harassment, pregnancy discrimination and retaliation.” As part of the EEOC settlement, Activision created an $18 million fund for eligible claimants who claimed they experienced such conditions during their employment at Activision. The company has also expanded both its Ethics and Compliance team and its Ethics Ambassador Program.

“Brian and I couldn’t be more excited for the next chapter for Activision Blizzard,” Kotick said. “We now join one of the most successful global companies, poised for unprecedented opportunities to connect the world through our games. As a part of Microsoft, we will be even better, together.”

According to a 2022 proxy filing, Kotick is entitled to a $14.4 million payment if he departs Activision Blizzard due to a change of company control, a clause that was in his contract before the Microsoft deal began.
********
Xbox Partner Preview showcase announced for Wednesday
********
Xbox Partner Preview showcase announced for Wednesday The livestream will feature Alan Wake 2, Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth, and ARK: Survival Ascended.

The season of gaming news events has come and gone, but the major players still have a couple of surprises up their sleeves before 2023 officially comes to a close. Xbox is hot off the acquisition of Activision Blizzard and will look to keep the momentum rolling with an Xbox Partner Preview showcase this week, highlighting upcoming games from third-party developers.

Microsoft announced the Xbox Partner Preview in a post to Xbox Wire. The event will take place on Wednesday, October 25, 2023. It’ll be streamed on Xbox’s YouTube and Twitch channels. This is the first installment in what is planned to be a series of livestreams that highlight games from developers outside of Microsoft’s massive stable.



Source: Remedy Entertainment

This new show format will deliver a fresh mix of indie games and familiar favorites from our third-party partners like Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio, Remedy Entertainment, Studio Wildcard, and others with more than 20 minutes of trailers and new gameplay footage.

While fans are undoubtedly hungry for details about what the future holds now that Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision Blizzard is complete, the company is telling folks not to get their hopes up. The announcement states that the “Xbox Partner Preview will not feature any additional news, game reveals, or Game Pass information related to the recent acquisition of Activision Blizzard King.”

With the first Xbox Partner Preview just two days away, it’ll be interesting to see how the format works and how Microsoft looks to implement it in the future. Be sure to bookmark our Xbox topic page as we’ll be reporting any news out of the showcase right here on Shacknews.
********
Xbox Sales Drop But Microsoft’s Gaming Division Grows in Revenue
********
Microsoft‘s Xbox sales declined by 7 percent, while the gaming system’s content and services grew 13 percent in revenue, the company said on Tuesday as part of its earnings report.

Total revenue for the gaming division grew 8 percent for the latest financial quarter, which follows the tech company becoming a video games powerhouse by closing a $68.7 billion deal to acquire Activision Blizzard.

The largest transaction in the history of Microsoft, led by CEO Satya Nadella, will make it the world’s third-largest gaming company by revenue, behind Tencent and Sony.

The takeover brings together Microsoft, which owns the Xbox game platform and Xbox Game Studios — owner of Starfield developer Bethesda Softworks and 343 Industries, among other game publishers — with Activision, maker of the Call of Duty, Diablo, Warcraft and Tony Hawk franchises, among others, and owner of Candy Crush and Farm Heroes Saga maker King.

During the first quarter, Microsoft’s Xbox hardware revenue declined 7 percent. At the same time, Xbox content and services revenue continued to grow on the strength of monetizing third party and first-party content — including from the launch of Starfield — and growth for Xbox Game Pass, the tech company’s subscription service that gives users access to Xbox games on consoles, PCs and mobile devices.

Overall revenue at Microsoft rose 13 percent to $56.5 billion, and net income jumped 27 percent to $22.3 billion.

“Together we will have advance our goal of bringing great games to players everywhere,” Microsoft CEO Nadella told analysts during a conference call as he touted anticipated gains from acquiring Activision Blizzard, which isn’t yet incorporated in Microsoft earnings results.

The goal will be using new game franchises like Candy Crush, Diablo and Halo to sell more Xbox consoles and drive additional subscribers to the Xbox Games Pass service.

“With Activision Blizzard, we now have added significant depth to our content portfolio,” Nadella said. Microsoft expects in the second quarter to see gaming division revenue growth at north of 45 percent, with most of that net impact, or around 35 percent, coming from incorporating Activision Blizzard.
********
Organizing Update
********
Microsoft/Activision Blizzard

Last Friday, Microsoft completed its acquisition of Activision Blizzard, paving the way for the implementation of CWA’s groundbreaking labor neutrality agreement for workers at the company. Thousands of video game workers will now have a free and fair process for joining CWA.

“It is a new day for workers at Activision Blizzard,” said CWA President Claude Cummings Jr. “Over two years ago, workers at Activision Blizzard’s studios captured the country’s attention through walkouts and other protests over discrimination, sexual harassment, pay inequity, and other issues they were facing on the job. Their efforts to form unions were met with illegal retaliation and attempts to delay and block union elections. Now these workers are free to join our union through a fair process, without interference from management. Microsoft’s high-road approach should be the norm across the industry.”
********
World of Warcraft Classic's worst Hardcore class has been revealed, and it's bad news for the MMO's Hunters
********
World of Warcraft Classic developer Blizzard has revealed the worst class to play as, and it's bad news for Hunters.

In a press release provided by the developer, Blizzard revealed what the unluckiest class is for UK players in its MMORPG. Among these stats, it was also revealed what the deadliest place to visit in World of Warcraft Classic is. Unfortunately, the statistics haven't been kind to the Hunter Class, revealing that it has the highest death percentage of any class - 41% of UK players who chose this class ended up meeting their permanent demise. "The Hunter is often seen as a safe class, but beware, as looks can be deceiving," Blizzard tells WoW players.

If you're trying to stay alive for as long as possible, it's probably a good idea to stay clear of Teldrassil, Undercity, and Stormwind as these locations - according to the UK-specific stats - caused the most deaths amongst players. Blizzard also revealed that the deadliest level for players (where they were defeated by the perils of Hardcore Realms) was at Level 6, with 10% of those not surviving past that level.

Just in case you missed it, World of Warcraft actually now belongs to Xbox's parent company after the closure of the Microsoft Activision Blizzard acquisition . Close to two years after it was first announced, Microsoft revealed on October 13 that Activision, and its subsidiaries Blizzard and King, are now part of the Xbox family. Shortly after the announcement, we got a trailer for the acquisition which saw Activision Blizzard characters from Crash Bandicoot, Overwatch, and WoW making an appearance and declaring that "this is home now."
********
Spyro 4 finally on the horizon, but may now be Xbox exclusive
********
The Spyro series is one of the most popular OG PlayStation games in history alongside its fellow platforming icon, Crash Bandicoot.

Advert 10

From 1998 to 2000, the Spyro series was published by Sony Interactive Entertainment, which was later passed around by companies before Activision acquired the licence in 2008. Spyro would become a successful franchise on multiple platforms including PC, Nintendo, and Xbox as well as on the PlayStation brand.

Check out the Spyro Reignited Trilogy trailer below!

Loading…

Advert 10

The most recent release in the series was Spyro Reignited Trilogy in 2018 on PS4 and Xbox One before making its way to PC and Nintendo Switch. This collection of glorious classics included remasters of the original three games that were released on PS1. There were rumours of a Spyro 4 circulating earlier this month, but as of yet, nothing has materialised.

Earlier this week the biggest saga in recent video game history came to an end after Microsoft finally acquired Activision Blizzard in a deal worth $68.7 billion. As a result of this goliath takeover, it means that franchises such as Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Overwatch, Crash Bandicoot and of course, Spyro became first-party Xbox properties.

We already know that Call of Duty will remain multiplatform following the takeover, at least for the foreseeable future, but what about the other Activision properties? Well, it seems that some may become Xbox console exclusives, which should come as no surprise.

Advert 10

Fans on Reddit have been discussing the future of the Spyro series with it potentially becoming an Xbox exclusive. “Spyro joins Xbox! Hopefully, this could push for having a new Spyro game in the future,” said Redditor LuxerWap kicking off the discussion on the thread.





Advert 10





“Potentially great for Spyro maybe but not good for the industry as a whole and definitely not good for gamers :( I'm sad this acquisition got approved,” replied gamblingGenocider.

“I'm not happy about this, I have no interest in owning an Xbox and I don't enjoy gaming on PC compared to my Switch or PS5,” exclaimed sunyoung-luna. “Yay, a new game..... oh wait! I won't get to play it because it'll be exclusive to Xbox!! No way I'm buying a brand new console for two IPs (Crash and Spyro),” said a downbeat Alternative-Pay6464.

Advert 10
********
Microsoft readies jumbo after Activision green light
********
The content you are trying to view is exclusive to our subscribers.

To unlock this article:
********
Former PlayStation Boss Sounds The Alarm After Microsoft Buys Activision Blizzard
********
The former CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment America, Shawn Layden, has had a lot to say about the state of the industry since he left Sony in 2019. In a recent interview Layden expanded on some of those points--warning against studio consolidation and advocating for game preservation in the wake of Microsoft's massive acquisition of Activision-Blizzard finally going through.

In an interview with the Lan Parties podcast last week, as picked up by Kotaku, Layden reiterated some of the biggest issues he sees in today's game industry--including consolidation, which has been a major talking point during Microsoft's battle to acquire gaming giant Activision-Blizzard-King.

"My concern around consolidation is that often it impacts creativity," Layden explained. "For instance, it takes some kind of small, independent, wildhorse studios and brings them into a larger conglomerate and essentially time slows down the bigger you are, time slows down."

While Layden says the practice can be positive in cases where a smaller studio otherwise would have shut down, he's still concerned about the impact of consolidation on the industry as a whole. "I'm just concerned about what it does to the creativity urge inside of the studios, and can they keep that sort of independent creativity alive or do they just get absorbed into the larger whole?" he elaborated. "Time will tell, but it's a bit concerning. When you go from hundreds of voices to dozens of voices, you lose some voices."

Layden also has concerns about the lack of variety in today's games, with many big AAA studios tending towards the same genres and formats. "If we continue to coalesce around the four or five genres, then we won't get the new players because those people have already said we're not interested in your genres," Layden said. "Don't kid yourself that someone who's said 'no' to Call of Duty for the last 15 years is going to start suddenly saying 'yes' to Call of Duty."

The former PlayStation boss also spoke on the topic of game preservation, saying he would like to see more people in the industry thinking about preserving old games for future generations. "This isn't throw-away stuff we're making," he said. "This is stuff that should be around for a long time because future generations will enjoy it in the same way that we have and it's criminal that we're not doing more to protect it."
********
New Dragon Ball Series, Best Buy To End Physical Media Sales & More
********
27:49

Everything You Need To Know About The Massive Xbox Leak, Ancient Aliens, & More | IGN The Weekly Fix
********
HYBE-signed K-Pop stars Le Sserafim partner with games developer Blizzard Entertainment for Overwatch 2 collaboration
********
Blizzard Entertainment, a unit of Activision Blizzard, has announced that its free-to-play team-based action game Overwatch 2 partnered with South Korean girl group Le Sserafim for an in-game collaboration.

The deal, which Blizzard says marks the game’s first musical artist collaboration, will see it working with Le Sserafim on the music video for their next single, Perfect Night. The video will debut on October 27.

A concept trailer for the music video already garnered 687,000 views on HYBE’s YouTube channel.

“We’re extremely excited to be working with Le Sserafim for our game’s first musical artist collaboration,” said Walter Kong, General Manager for Overwatch.

“Like the heroes of Overwatch, the Le Sserafim members are amazing as individuals, but unstoppable when they come together.”

Le Sserafim members Kim Chae-won, Sakura, Huh Yun-jin, Kazuha, and Hong Eun-chae will make an appearance at BlizzCon on November 4 to perform Perfect Night at the end of the show.

“Like the heroes of Overwatch, the Le Sserafim members are amazing as individuals, but unstoppable when they come together.” Walter Kong, Overwatch

Le Sserafim was formed by South Korean entertainment company Source Music in collaboration with HYBE. They debuted in May 2022 with the release of their first EP, Fearless. The girl group’s name is an anagram of the phrase “I’m fearless.”

The group achieved 1.38 million preorders for their first studio album Unforgiven, which was released in May of this year, according to HYBE.

Le Sserafim is among HYBE’s biggest revenue sources. The group has amassed nearly 9 million monthly listeners on Spotify and has more than 6.5 million followers on Instagram.

In announcing the latest collaboration, Blizzard released a teaser artwork for Overwatch 2 featuring Le Sserafim members reimagined as digital characters.

The partnership comes amid the rise of virtual bands in the era of the metaverse.

Just last week, Riot Games launched yet another virtual band featuring reimagined versions of League of Legends champions. Among the members of the new band called HEARTSTEEL is Baekhyun, member of the South Korean-Chinese boy band EXO.

Kakao Entertainment, the entertainment division of South Korean internet company Kakao Corp., also unveiled a four-member virtual K-Pop girl group called MAVE earlier this year through its Metaverse Entertainment joint venture with South Korean mobile game developer Netmarble.

A number of K-Pop groups have also held virtual concerts in gaming platforms including NCT 127, which hosted a free virtual concert on Roblox in January, and BLACKPINK, which held a virtual concert on PUBG Mobile.

Blizzard’s new venture comes just days after Microsoft completed its $68.7 billion acquisition of the company after clearing the hurdles with UK and US regulators.

Music Business Worldwide
********
Xbox Players Can Play 10 Free Hours of Diablo 4 This Weekend
********
Diablo 4 is free to play this weekend for Xbox players, as gamers get a taste of Blizzard games ahead of an eventual Game Pass introduction. Diablo 4 was released in June earlier this year, and instantly received praise from critics and gamers. The previous title in the franchise, Diablo 3, was released more than 10 years ago.

The title was recently released on the digital video game distribution service, Steam, and drew a lot of ire by gamers who immediately review-bombed the game. Xbox gamers can check out the game for free before deciding on whether or not to purchase the game from one of Microsoft’s recently acquired studios.

Diablo 4 Can Be Played For Free On Xbox Consoles For The Next Two Days

The free-to-play period started yesterday, and Xbox owners have until the 22nd of October, 11:59 PM Pacific Time, to play Diablo 4, with no Xbox Game Pass subscriptions required. The only catch is that the free period will last 10 hours from the time gamers start playing the game, which should give players enough gameplay experience to get an idea of whether or not to go ahead and purchase the game outright.

Those who do decide to grab the game to play the game fully and experience the Season 2 content as well, can buy the game at a discount with prices slashed for the next 11 days. The game is $25 off for the Ultimate Edition, selling at $74.99, $22.50 off for the Digital Deluxe Edition, selling at $67.49, and $17.50 off for the Standard Edition, selling at $52.49.

Fandomwire Video

Those who do have a Game Pass Core or Game Pass Ultimate subscription can also trial three other games this weekend including NBA 2K24, Hokko Life, and Lawn Mowing Simulator, although these three games will not have any time restrictions.

Diablo 4‘s Season 2 content, Season of Blood, will remain inaccessible during this trial period, but the main campaign can be played for as long as possible in the given time period. Season 2 was launched with Diablo IV 1.2 patch that brings several updates including crossplay and cross-progression fixes.

It’s been a week since Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision-Blizzard-King finalized following the approval from the UK’s CMA after several months of waiting and now the Xbox Game Pass library is all set to gain several games from their new partner studios.

Diablo 4’s Debut on Steam Marred By Fans Who Review-Bomb The Game

Diablo 4 recently came out on Steam, and the game immediately got review-bombed by fans as the game’s microtransactions and a battle pass drew the ire of fans. Diablo 4 had reportedly earned the developers more than $600 Million over the first five days post-release, which was accompanied by fans and critics rating the game highly on Metacritic.

However, the game’s Battle Pass approach and the insanely expensive cosmetic items in-game have disappointed fans massively. While some gamers have voiced their opinion about Diablo 4‘s microtransactions in-game by scoring the game low, most of the reviews on Steam for the game are flooded with reviews by gamers whose accounts show less than half an hour of gameplay, and some with even less time spent in the game.

Review-bombing games isn’t new and plenty of AAA games have faced the insane approach by gamers for non-legitimate reasons, which in turn affected the game’s overall ratings. Diablo 4 joins Starfield and Mortal Kombat 1 as the big titles to have their ratings affected due to fans review-bombing the title.

While Metacritic has no filter to ensure a review’s legitimacy, Steam users can check the amount of time a reviewer has actually spent playing the game to differentiate legitimate reviews and review bombs.

All that being said, Diablo 4 is still a critically acclaimed game that Xbox owners must still go ahead and try while the game’s free to play this weekend.

Follow us for more entertainment coverage on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube.
********
Nintendo of America President: 'We Have a Great Relationship With Microsoft'
********
Nintendo of America President: 'We Have a Great Relationship With Microsoft' - News

/ 4,703 Views

by, posted 4 days ago

Nintendo of America president Doug Bowser in an interview with Inverse was asked about his thoughts on the leaked documents that revealed Microsoft had discussions in acquiring Nintendo in 2020 and he said the two companies "have a great relationship."

"We have a great relationship with Microsoft," said Bowser. "We consider them to be partners in many, many ways, and you only have to look at Nintendo Switch to see that partnership. Obviously, Minecraft is on Nintendo Switch, and we brought Banjo Kazooie to Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. So, we're looking forward to that partnership continuing.

"As far as consolidation in the industry goes, I've been a part of this industry for 16-plus years now. One thing that's been constant is the acquisitions of studios. But the other constant is the fact that new studios are popping up every single year.

"Incredibly creative studios are making content, from indie-sized to AAA-sized games. So as consolidation happens, on an equal basis, we're seeing these new studios, which really just speaks to the dynamic nature of the industry overall. In the end, that bodes well for the player."

Microsoft and Nintendo earlier this year signed a "binding 10-year legal agreement" to bring Call of Duty games to Nintendo platforms now that Microsoft has completed its acquisition of Activision Blizzard.

A life-long and avid gamer, William D'Angelo was first introduced to VGChartz in 2007. After years of supporting the site, he was brought on in 2010 as a junior analyst, working his way up to lead analyst in 2012 and taking over the hardware estimates in 2017. He has expanded his involvement in the gaming community by producing content on his own YouTube channel and Twitch channel. You can contact the author on Twitter @TrunksWD.

More Articles
********
Microsoft, Google post strong quarterly sales growth as Big Tech continues its comeback
********
New York CNN —

Big tech companies are continuing a turnaround from last year, as Alphabet, Microsoft and Snap kicked off earnings season with strong sales results for the quarter ended in September.

Google parent company Alphabet on Tuesday reported quarterly sales of $76.69 billion, up 11% from the same period in the prior year. The company also posted profits of $19.69 billion for the quarter.

Meanwhile, Microsoft posted 13% year-on-year sales growth to $56.5 billion, also beating expectations. Microsoft’s quarterly profits hit $22.3 billion, up 27% from the year-ago period.

Snapchat parent Snap on Tuesday reported a return to sales growth in the September quarter, after two consecutive quarters of declining sales. The company reported revenue of nearly $1.2 billion, an increase of 5% from the same period in the prior year and ahead of analysts’ projections. The company reported a net loss of $368 million.

The strong results come after Microsoft, Alphabet, Snap and other tech companies carried out mass layoffs and other cost cutting moves over the past year following a difficult 2022 when advertisers and other clients cut back on their spending due to concerns over the macroeconomic environment.

Despite beating Wall Street’s sales expectations, shares of both Alphabet (GOOGL) and Snap (SNAP) each dipped around 5% in after-hours trading following the reports, although Snap’s quickly regained some ground. Microsoft (MSFT) shares gained around 4% in after-hours trading.

“Q3 tech season has been quite strong thus far,” Tejas Dessai, research analyst at investment fund GlobalX said in a statement. “These numbers clearly defy concerns of near term economic weakness looming.”

Google earnings

Google’s advertising business generated quarterly revenue of $59.6 billion, up from $54.5 billion in the prior year. YouTube ads, meanwhile, garnered some $7.9 billion in revenue, up roughly 12% year-over-year.

YouTube Shorts, the company’s TikTok competitor, hit a milestone 70 billion daily views last quarter, Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai said on a call with analysts Tuesday afternoon.

Google’s cloud business, however, reported revenue of $8.41 billion — missing analysts’ estimates.

Jesse Cohen, a senior analyst at Investing.com, attributed Alphabet’s after-hours stock fall to the “relatively weak performance in its Google cloud platform, which is at risk of falling further behind [Microsoft’s] Azure and [Amazon’s] AWS.” Still, despite taking a hit in 2022 amid a broader tech sector downturn, shares for Alphabet have climbed roughly 56% since the start of 2023, beating the tech-heavy Nasdaq index.

Google’s report comes as the tech giant is in the antitrust hot seat. US prosecutors officially opened a landmark antitrust trial against Google last month with sweeping allegations that the company engaged in anticompetitive behavior to maintain its dominance over search. (As the legal showdown rages on, Google has continued to deny allegations that it operated illegally.)

Google also confirmed last month plans to lay off hundreds of staffers in its recruiting division, as it continues cost cutting efforts in some areas. These more targeted layoffs came after Alphabet in January cut around 12,000 jobs — about 6% of its workforce.

Still, Google has signaled that it remains committed to investing heavily in generative artificial intelligence technology. Last month, Google rolled out a major expansion of its Bard AI chatbot tool.

“As we expand access to our new AI services, we continue to make meaningful investments in support of our AI efforts,” Pichai said on the call. “We remain committed to durably re-engineering our cost base in order to help create capacity for these investments, in support of long-term sustainable financial value.”

Microsoft earnings

Microsoft’s recent investments in AI technology helped boost its sales in the September quarter, especially in its key cloud division. Sales from Microsoft’s “intelligent cloud” business — its biggest revenue driver — grew 19% from the year-ago quarter to $24.3 billion.

Revenue from the company’s “productivity and business processes” business, which includes LinkedIn and Office commercial and consumer products, also grew 13% year-over-year to $18.6 billion.

“Microsoft is firing on all cylinders and AI is clearly driving growth,” Cohen said in a research note following the company’s report. “The results indicated that artificial intelligence products are stimulating sales and already contributing to top and bottom-line growth.”

But economic jitters among consumers appear to still have some impact on the company’s bottom line. Devices revenue, which includes sales of laptops, tablets and Xbox consoles, decreased 22% year-over-year, despite a 3% sales increase in the overall “more personal computing” segment. Ongoing concerns about a potential economic slowdown could continue to weigh on the company as it heads into the crucial holiday device sales season.

The report is Microsoft’s first since the company closed its $69 billion acquisition of “Call of Duty” maker Activision Blizzard earlier this month. While the deal didn’t factor into this quarter’s results, it’s expected to supercharge the company’s gaming business.

“Microsoft now controls 30 game studios and some of the most well-known games across the industry,” Edward Jones analyst Logan Purk said in a research note earlier this month. “With a massive cloud network and now a compelling library of games, Microsoft has a leg up on peers” in gaming, he said.

Following the Activision takeover, “we’re looking forward to one of our strongest first-party holiday [game] lineups ever, including new titles like Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3,” CEO Satya Nadella said on an analyst call Tuesday. The company said it expects roughly $400 million of operating expenses in the fourth quarter to come as a result of the acquisition.

Snap earnings

Snap said its sales growth was driven in part by its ongoing efforts to revamp its advertising technology, following changes to Apple’s app tracking policies that took a hit to the business models of Snapchat, Facebook and other platforms.

“We are focused on improving our advertising platform to drive higher return on investment for our advertising partners, and we have evolved our go-to-market efforts to better serve our partners and drive customer success,” CEO Evan Spiegel said in a statement.

Snap also reported that it now has 406 million daily active users, up 12% compared to the year-ago quarter. And time spent watching Spotlight — Snapchat’s TikTok clone — grew 200% year-over-year, according to the company.

The company also recently announced that it had reached more than 5 million subscribers to its Snapchat+ subscription program, a key effort to diversify its revenue.

Snap said Tuesday that its chief operating officer, Jerry Hunter, plans to retire. Hunter, who spent seven years at the company, will step down from his role as of the end of the month, but will remain at the company until July 1, 2024, to support the transition.

The company noted that some advertisers temporarily paused their spending following the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas war. Because of the “unpredictable nature” of the war, Snap declined to provide formal guidance for the fourth quarter, but said its internal forecast assumes year-over-year quarterly revenue growth between 2% and 6%.
********
Microsoft ticks up on faster cloud growth and hopeful revenue forecast
********
Microsoft's net income jumped 27% as management cut back on spending.

The company's Azure cloud revenue growth accelerated after two years of deceleration.

Management called for more revenue than analysts had expected for the current quarter.

Microsoft shares jumped as much as 6% in extended trading Tuesday after the software maker issued fiscal first-quarter results and quarterly revenue guidance that beat Wall Street estimates. The firm also reported a surge in profit due to a slower pace of operating expense growth.

Here's how the company did, compared with the consensus among analysts surveyed by LSEG, formerly known as Refinitiv:

Earnings per share: $2.99 vs. $2.65 expected

$2.99 vs. $2.65 expected Revenue: $56.52 billion vs. $54.50 billion expected

Feeling out of the loop? We'll catch you up on the Chicago news you need to know. Sign up for the weekly Chicago Catch-Up newsletter here.

With respect to guidance, Amy Hood, Microsoft's finance chief, called for fiscal second-quarter revenue in the range of $60.4 billion to $61.4 billion on a conference call with analysts. That implies 15% growth. Analysts polled by Refinitiv had expected $60.9 billion in revenue.

Revenue grew almost 13% year over year in the quarter from $50.12 billion in the year-ago quarter, according to a statement. Net income, at $22.29 billion, increased 27% from $17.56 billion, or $2.35 per share, in the same quarter a year ago.

Microsoft's Intelligent Cloud segment produced $24.26 billion in revenue, up 19% and above the $23.49 billion consensus among analysts surveyed by StreetAccount. The unit comprises the Azure public cloud, SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, Nuance, GitHub and enterprise services.

Revenue just from Azure jumped 29% during the quarter, higher than the 26% consensus among analysts that CNBC and StreetAccount polled. Microsoft doesn't disclose Azure revenue in dollars. At constant currency, Azure revenue rose 28%, accelerating from 27% in the fiscal fourth quarter.

For the second half of the 2024 fiscal year, Hood said to expect Azure growth at constant currency to remain stable compared with the fiscal second quarter, which should come in at 26% to 27%, with an increasing contribution from artificial intelligence.

Microsoft is "still helping customers use the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend, and driving operating leverage," CEO Satya Nadella said in the earnings release. Hood said clients are still finding ways to save money on cloud spending, a trend multiple large cloud infrastructure providers have flagged in the past few quarters.

"We'll lap some of those cycles that were fairly extreme perhaps in the second half" of the fiscal year, Nadella said.

Meanwhile, clients are flocking to new generative AI tools in the cloud that are enhanced with software from Microsoft-backed startup OpenAI. The Azure OpenAI Service now has 18,000 customers, up from 11,000 customers in July. Higher capacity for graphics processing units in Azure boosted growth, Hood said.

Around 3 percentage points of the quarter's Azure growth was tied to AI, Hood said. Three months ago, the company had forecast 2 points of Azure growth in that area.

"Looking on a competitive basis, we feel good about our execution, we feel good about taking share and we feel good about consistent trends," Hood said. The AI contribution in Azure at constant currency in the second half of the fiscal year should be consistent with results in the fiscal second quarter, she said.

The Productivity and Business Processes unit posted $18.59 billion in revenue, which was up 13% and more than StreetAccount's $18.19 billion consensus. The unit contains Microsoft 365 productivity app subscriptions, LinkedIn and Dynamics enterprise software. The Teams communication app now has more than 320 million monthly active users, up from 300 million six months ago, Nadella said on a conference call with analysts.

Hood was cautious when talking about the potential revenue lift from the introduction of the Microsoft 365 Copilot AI add-on for existing productivity software subscriptions, which will become available to large companies Nov. 1, starting at $30 per person per month. She said the company expects "related revenue to grow gradually over time."

Microsoft's More Personal Computing segment featuring Windows, Xbox, Bing and Surface contributed $13.67 billion in revenue. That was up 3% and higher than the $12.85 billion StreetAccount consensus.

The company reported 4% growth in sales of Windows operating-system licenses to device makers, ending a streak of five quarters of year-over-year declines. The PC market has started to stabilize, Hood said. Shipments were down 9% in the third quarter, compared to a 30% decline in the first quarter, according to estimates from technology industry researcher Gartner.

Microsoft continued to slow its growth in research and development and sales and marketing costs. Operating expenses increased 1.3%, the slowest rate since 2016. For the fiscal second quarter, management foresees about 5% growth.

During the quarter, Microsoft introduced fresh cybersecurity services, announced new Surface PCs and said it would sell its Microsoft 365 Copilot AI add-on to enterprises starting Nov. 1.

Earlier this month, Microsoft completed its $68.7 billion acquisition of video game publisher Activision Blizzard. While Activision isn't incorporated into Microsoft's fiscal first-quarter results, it will partly affect earnings for the next quarter, so executives will likely discuss it when providing guidance.

Notwithstanding the after-hours move, Microsoft stock is up 38% so far this year, while the S&P 500 index is up about 11% during the same period.

WATCH: The tailwinds of AI are starting to kick in for Microsoft, says Jefferies Brent Thill

Don't miss these CNBC PRO stories:
********
The Video Game Industry Calls It “Crunch.” Workers Call It Exploitation.
********
In the video game industry, the term “crunch” refers to an extended period of strenuous unpaid work in the months on either side of a game launch. Employers often expect their employees to work extra hours and weekends, often sixty and sometimes a hundred hours a week. The most egregious instances of crunch are sometimes referred to as “death marches,” and can last for years.

Industry giants have promoted crunch as a rite of passage that tests mettle and confers insider status on video game developers. But when we peel back the layers of spin, we can see crunch culture for what it really is: exploitation.

A former artist at Activision, referred to here as Lucas, told Jacobin that one of his coworkers suffered a heart attack at his desk during a particularly brutal crunch period. Another colleague would come in while sick, said Lucas, and vomit into a trash can at their desk because they didn’t feel they could miss the crunch. These horror stories are pervasive in the industry, and crunches at big companies like Activision Blizzard are, as Lucas described them, a “total arms race” that raise expectations at other workplaces throughout the industry.

Lucas told Jacobin that he was sometimes expected to work seventy-five hours a week for months. Beyond that, he reported that he routinely worked fifty or sixty hours a week throughout his ten-year tenure with the company, compelled by company culture and pressure from his boss. The work was physically strenuous, Lucas said, and came with diminishing bonuses. Lucas reported that the work culture caused problems in his relationship. He left the company, among other reasons, to spend more time with his children.

A game developer at a middle-market or “AA” company, referred to here as Owen, told Jacobin that he once crunched seventy hours a week for a total of six months. Owen said he was compensated for overtime while on contract, but was told by his partner that he shouldn’t “give himself away for free” when he became salaried. He described his crunch experience as the “insidious kind” where he was compelled to sacrifice quality to meet unreasonable deadlines. He added, however, that this is “nothing like those multiyear death marches that people at Naughty Dog or Blizzard would have to do.” Neither Activision Blizzard nor Naughty Dog responded to a request for comment.

Not all companies share the same work culture. A former environment artist at the Swedish company Avalanche Studios, referred to here as Miles, told Jacobin that he never really experienced crunch. He described his workplace as relatively “crunch-averse,” saying, “I was lucky no one exploited me and expected me to grind.”

Many companies insist that crunch is voluntary and that nonexempt employees are compensated. However, salaried employees in the industry report that they often feel manipulated into working excessive hours. A 2019 survey from the International Game Developers Association reported that 40 percent of developers worked crunch time in the previous year for at least twenty extra hours above their standard forty-hour workweek, with only 8 percent of those receiving additional compensation for those hours.

Between surveys and anecdotal reports, a picture is emerging of an industry that takes advantage of a primarily young male workforce, many of whom began their careers unpartnered and some of whom remain single, who are eager to prove themselves and make their mark in the industry. Since it’s also a relatively new industry and medium, there are few unions that draw up fair contracts and enforce existing worker protection laws, as well as a paucity of laws specific to the industry. Lucas told Jacobin that studios also increasingly outsource work overseas in order to pay lower wages, adding the threat of job insecurity on top of extravagant working hours.

In the early days of the industry, games were made by much smaller teams of developers. Many who crunched had a vested financial interest in the product and would see financial returns at least somewhat proportional to their hard work. But the revenue-sharing model has become increasingly elusive, as big companies are staffed by hundreds or even thousands of employees. Lucas told Jacobin that many who work at large studios like Activision Blizzard can’t expect to be fairly compensated or credited. He added that “lionizing big games and studio executives” who engage in this “toxic behavior” is part of the problem.
********
Satya Nadella’s compensation no longer tied to Game Pass growth after missing targets for two straight years
********
In FY23, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella’s performance-based pay targets were no longer tied to Game Pass growth, as opposed to the previous three fiscal years. This comes amid uncertainty and a lack of officially disclosed data about the current state of the subscription service.

As spotted by Axios, Microsoft recently filed its 2023 proxy statement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. For fiscal year 2023 (ended June 30, 2023), Satya Nadella’s performance incentives included the only metric related to the company’s gaming business — “Xbox Content and Services Revenue Growth.”

Xbox’s 12-month content and services revenue growth target was 4.4%, but the division ended up growing just 0.7% year-over-year. It represented 10% of Nadella’s total performance targets, behind Teams’ MAU growth (20%), Microsoft Cloud’s subscribers growth (20%), and Microsoft Cloud’s revenue (30%).

Overall, Nadella’s cash and stock compensation for FY23 was $48.5 million, down from $54.9 million in 2022.

Core metric performance and payout percentages (FY23)

What’s interesting here is that for the previous three years, one of his performance targets was “Xbox Game Pass Subscribers Growth” (via 2022’s SEC filing):

In FY20 (ended June 30, 2020), the number of subscribers grew 85.75% year-over-year, above the 71% target;

In FY21 (ended June 30, 2021), the target was 47.8%, but Game Pass subscribers grew only 37.5% from the previous year;

In FY22 (ended June 30, 2022), Game Pass also missed its 72.88% target, growing only 28% year-over-year.

Core metric performance and payout percentages (FY20-FY22)

So Game Pass subscriber growth fell short of Nadella’s pay target in two of those three fiscal years, leading to a shift to a new metric tied to the Xbox division as a whole in FY23. This doesn’t mean that Microsoft itself is 100% disappointed with the performance of its subscription service, as the company may have different internal goals. However, these numbers don’t usually come out of thin air, leaving room for speculation that Game Pass may be growing slower than expected.

The last time Microsoft officially disclosed the number of subscribers was in January 2022 (Q3 FY22), when Game Pass surpassed 25 million users. This was up 38.8% from the 18 million milestone reported in January 2021.

In October 2022, Sony told the UK’s Competition and Markets Authority that the service had 29 million users and was expected to “grow substantially in the future,” but Xbox still insists that the 25 million milestone should be referred to as the “official tally.”

It is hard to believe that Game Pass subscriber numbers haven’t changed in 21 months (since January 2022). Microsoft may have its own reasons for not providing any official updates, and one of them could be the lack of significant growth. Another question here is, how many users did the company plan to reach by 2023? 25 million seems unlikely.

Perhaps, we can expect Microsoft to share new numbers in 2024, when it finally starts adding Activision Blizzard titles to Game Pass.
